There is a weeping in the world, as if the dear God had died, And the leaden shadow that falls down weighs heavily on the grave. Come, let us hide ourselves closer? Life lies in all hearts As in coffins. You! let us kiss deeply - There throbs a longing for the world from which we must die.
The moon emerges from the yellow wall of clouds. The lunatics hang from the bars, like great spiders glued to walls. Her hand drives along the garden fence. In open halls one sees dancers floating. It is the ball of the lunatics. Suddenly, the madness cries out. The roar spreads far, That all the walls tremble from the noise. With whom he has just spoken about Hume, The doctor is seized by a lunatic with violence. He lies in the blood. His skull is broken. The bunch of lunatics look amused. But soon they reveal, as the whip pops far away, like mice crawling into the earth.
Oh, the madness of the great city, when in the evening crippled trees stare at a black wall, the spirit of evil looks out of a silver mask; light with a magnetic scourge suppresses the stony night. Oh, the sunken ringing of the evening bells. Whore who gives birth to a dead child in icy showers. Fury of God whips the foreheads of the possessed, Purple plague, hunger that shatters green eyes. Oh, the ghastly laughter of gold. But silent bleeds in a dark cave dumb mankind, Add the redeeming head of hard metals.
In an old book I came across a word that struck me like a blow and burns away through my days: And when I forgive myself for gloomy lust, when I lift up appearances, lies and games to me instead of the being, When I lie to myself with a swift sense, As if dark things were clear, as if life did not carry a thousand wildly locked gates, And contradict words whose breadth I never felt, And grasp things whose being never troubled me, When a welcome dream strokes me with velvet walls, And day and reality escapes from me, Alienated from the world, alien to the deepest I, Then the word rises to me: Man, become essential!
Heaven, great, full of splendid behavior, a store of space, an abundance of world. And we, too far away to be arranged, too near to be turned away. There falls a star! And our desire for it, bewildered gaze, urgently connected: What has begun, and what has passed away? What is to blame? And what is to be forgiven?
And fresh food, new blood suck? I from a free world; How is nature so good and good, Who holds me by the bosom! The wave cradles our barge in the rowing beat, And mountains, cloudy sky, Meet our course. Aug?, my eye? Why do you sink? Golden dreams come back to you? Away, you dream! as gold you are; Here is also love? and life. On the wave twinkling a thousand floating stars, Soft mists drink the thundering distance; Morning wind winges around The shaded bay, And in the lake the ripening fruit reflects.
Did a boy see a little horse standing, little horse on the heathens, Was so young and beautiful in the morning, Did he run quickly to see it, Saw it with many joys. Little horse, little horse, little horse on the heathens. Boy said, I break you, little horse on the heathens. Little horse said, I stab you, That you may remember me forever, And I will not suffer. Little horse, little horse, little horse on the heathens. And the wild boy broke? s little horse on the heathens. Little horse fought back and stabbed him, But no woe or woe helped him, Must he suffer. Little horse, little horse, little horse on the heathens.
Long years ago the nightingale sang, That was sweet sound, Since we were together. I sing and cannot weep, And spin so alone The thread clear and pure As long as the moon will shine. When we were together The nightingale sang Now her sound admonishes me That thou hast departed from me. As often as the moon may seem, I think of thine alone. My heart is clear and pure, God will unite us. Ever since thou sailed from me, the nightingale always sings, I think of her sound, As we were together. God will unite us Here I spin so alone, The moon shines clear and pure, I sing and want to weep.
In a cool ground there goes a mill wheel, My beloved is gone, Who has lived there. She has promised me faithfulness, Gave me a ring with her, She has broken her faithfulness, My little ring jumped in two. I want to travel as a minstrel Far out into the world, And sing my wise men, And go from house to house. I want to fly as a rider Well into the bloody battle, To lie still fire In the field in the dark night. I hear the mill wheel go: I do not know what I want - I would like to die, There it would be suddenly silent!
Fear of Tharau is what pleases me, She is my life, my property and my money. Fear of Tharau has again turned her heart to me, in love and in pain Fear of Tharau, my wealth, my property, You my soul, my flesh and my blood. If all weather came to us at once, We are minded to stand together. Disease, persecution, sorrow and anguish shall be the bonding of our love. Fear of Tharau, my wealth, my property, You my soul, my flesh and my blood. Right as a palm tree rises above itself, the more hail and rain attacks it: Thus shall the love in us become mighty and great, Through cross, through suffering, through all kinds of adversity. Fear of Tharau, my wealth, my property, You my soul, my flesh and my blood. If you would
I do not know what it means that I am so sad; A fairy tale from ancient times, that does not come out of my mind. The air is cool and it is dark, And the Rhine flows calmly; The summit of the mountain sparkles in the evening sunshine. The most beautiful maiden sits up there wonderfully; Her golden jewels sparkle, She combs her golden hair. She combs it with a golden comb And sings a song with it; That has a wondrous, mighty melody. The boatman in the small ship seizes it with wild woe; He does not look at the rock reefs, He only looks up into the heights. I think the waves devour boatman and barge at the end; And that has done with her singing The Lore-Ley.
Sleeps a song in all things, Which dream on and on, And the world begins to sing, If you meet only the magic word.
Eyes, my dear little windows, Give me a pleasant glow for so long, let me kindly enter picture after picture: One day you will be darkened! Once the weary eyelids fall, if you extinguish them, then the soul will rest; groping, it will strip off its hiking shoes, it will also lie down in its dark chest. It will see two little sparks still glowing, How two little stars can be seen within, Until they waver and then also pass away, As of a butterfly's wings. But still I wander in the evening field, Only joined to the sinking star; Drink, O eyes, what holds the eyelashes, Of the golden abundance of the world!
Roofers fall and fall in two, And on the coasts? you read? the tide rises. The storm is there, the wild seas hop ashore to crush thick dams. Most people have a cold. The railways fall from the bridges.
A hair so audacious in spite of the Berenice speaks A mouth / that holds roses and pearls A tongue / such a giff before a thousand hearts carries two breasts / where ruby breaks through alabaster A neck / the swan-snow far back stabs Zwey cheeks / where the splendour of flora moves A glance / that leads lightning and puts men down Zwey arms / whose strength is open to shine A heart / from which nothing but my ruin quilts A word / so heavenly is / and can damn me Zwey hands / whose grip captivated me And by a sweet poisons the soul itself envelops A dainty / as it seems / in paradise has deprived me of my wit and my cheekiness.
It is a strong castle, Has good weights and weapons! With Prussian fortresses, however, I do not like to create anything. We arrived there in the evening time. The planks of the Zugbrück moaned So eerily as we rolled over; The dark ditches yawned. The high bastions looked at me, So menacing and exasperated; The great gate went up rattling, Ward rattling closed again. Ah! My soul was grieved, As the soul of Odysseus, When he heard that Polyphem pushed the boulder in front of the cave. A corporal came to the chariot And frug us: as we were called? I am called No one, am an eye doctor, And stab the star the giant. In the tavern I felt even worse, The food would not taste to me. I went to sleep immediately, but I did not sleep
With a roof and its shadow, the stock of colorful horses turns for a little while, all from the country that hesitates for a long time before it goes down. Although some are tensed to wagons, but all have courage in their faces; an evil red lion walks with them and every now and then a white elephant. Even a deer is there, just like in the forest, only that he carries a saddle and over it a little blue girl strapped on. And on the lion rides white a boy and holds himself with the little hot hand because the lion shows teeth and tongue. And now and then a white elephant. And on the horses they pass by, even girls, bright, almost outgrown this horse jump; in the middle of the swing they look up, somewhere, over - And now and then a white elephant. And that goes and hurries, that it ends, and circles and turns and has no goal
The masts rise up against the grey rampart like a burnt forest into the early red, As black as slag. Where the water is dead To store, which is rotten and decaying. Dull sounds the sound, then the flood returns along the quay. The city night flush floats like a white skin in the stream and rubs itself against the steamer that rests in the dock. Dust, fruit, paper, in a thick layer, So the droppings drift out of its tubes completely. A white dance dress comes, in fat splendour A naked neck and lead white a face. The corpse rolls out completely. It blows out The dress like a white ship in the wind. The dead eyes stare large and blind To the sky, which stands full of pink clouds. The purple water trembles from a small wave. - The water rat track, which manages The white
In the evening, when we walk on dark paths, our pale figures appear before us. When we are thirsty, we drink the white waters of the pond, The sweetness of our sad childhood. Dead we rest under the elderberry bushes, Look at the grey seagulls. Spring clouds rise over the dark city, Which of the monks more noble times is silent. As I took your narrow hands, you softly opened the round eyes, This is a long time ago. But when dark noises afflict the soul, you appear white in the friend of the autumnal landscape.
A fat boy plays with a pond. The wind has caught itself in a tree. The sky looks dim and pale, as if he had run out of make-up. Bent down on long crutches and chatting, two lame people crawl in the field. A blond poet might go mad. A little horse stumbles over a lady. A fat man sticks to a window. A young man wants to visit a soft woman. A grey clown puts on his boots. A pram screams and dogs curse.
In the evening the autumnal forests sound of deadly weapons, the golden plains and blue lakes, over which the sun rolls gloom; the night embraces dying warriors, the wild lamentation of their broken mouths. But still gathers in the willow ground Red clouds, in which dwells an angry god, The shed blood, moonless coolness; All the streets flow into black decay. Under golden branches of the night and stars Shadows of the sister sway through the silent grove, To greet the spirits of the heroes, the bleeding heads; And the dark flutes of autumn sound softly in the pipe. O proud mourning! you bronze altars, The hot flame of the spirit nourishes today a mighty pain, The unborn grandchildren.
When you go to work in the early morning, when you stand at the train station With your worries: there the city shows you millions of faces in the funnel of a human being: Two strange eyes, a short glance, the brow, pupils, the eyelids? What was that? Maybe your happiness in life... gone, blown away, never again. You walk your whole life on a thousand streets; you see on your corridor that forgot you. An eye beckons, the soul sounds; you have found, only for seconds... Two strange eyes, a short glance, the brow, pupils, the eyelids; What was that? no one turns back time... past, blown away, never again. You have to wander through cities on your corridor; you see a pulse for a long time the foreign others. It can be an enemy, it can be a friend, it can be your comrade in
The pale death with his cold hand will at last stroke your breasts with time / The sweet coral of your lips will fade; The shoulder-warm snow will become cold sand / The ugen sweet lightning / The strength of your hand / For whom such falls / They will give way in time / The hair / the itzund can of the gold shine / At last erase day and year as a common bond. The well-set foot / the lovely gestures / They will partly become dust / partly nothing and void / For no one sacrifices any more to the divinity of your splendour. This and even more than this must finally perish / Your heart can exist alone at all times / Because nature has made it of diamond.
Wonderful man, who fled the city! Every murmur of the tree, every sound of the brook, every twinkling pebble, preaching virtue and wisdom to him! Every shadowy shrub is to him a holy temple, where his God flows nearer to him; Every lawn an altar, Where he kneels before the sublime. His nightingale sounds slumber down upon him, His nightingale wakes him up again, When the lovely spring shines through the trees on his bed. Then he admires thee, God, in the morning corridor, In the rising splendour of thy messenger, The glorious sun, Thou in the worm, and in the bud branch. Restes in the blowing grass, when the coolness pours, Or streams the spring over the flowers; Drink the breath of the blossom
My heart beat, swiftly on horseback! It was done almost as thought; The evening was already rocking the earth And on the mountains hung the night Already stood in the mist-dress the oak A giant piled up, Where darkness saw out of the bushes With a hundred black eyes. The moon from a hill of clouds Saw miserably out of the fragrance; The winds swung softly wings whirled eerily around my ear The night created a thousand monsters Yet fresh and joyful was my courage In my veins what fire! In my hearts what glow! I saw you, and the mild joy flowed from the sweet look at me; Whole was my heart at your side And every breath for you. A pink spring weather surrounded the lovely face, And tenderness for me - you gods! I hope I do not deserve it! But, already with the morning sun,
Spring shall delight and enchant me with sweet looks, summer shall entertain me with fruit and myrtle kingdom, gird me joyfully. Autumn, thou shalt teach me household, to be without, to covet, And thou shalt teach me winter to die, to perish, to inherit spring.
When the Ancient Holy Father With a serene hand From rolling clouds Blessing lightnings Over the earth I sow the last hem of his garment, Childish shivers Faithful in the breast. For with gods shall not any man measure himself. If he lifts himself upward And touches the stars with the crown of his head, Nowhere do the uncertain soles cling, And with him play clouds and winds. If he stands with firm, marrow-like bones On the well-founded Permanent Earth, Is he not sufficient to compare Himself only with the oak or the vine. What distinguishes gods from men? That many waves walk before them, An eternal stream: The wave lifts us, engulfs the wave, And we sink. A small ring limits our life, And many generations continually line them, To their existence Infinite chain.
Greater would thou also, but love compels all of us down, sorrow bends more mightily, Yet Our bow does not return in vain whence it comes. Up or down! reigns in holy night, Where the mute nature meditates on days to come, Does not a degree, nor a right, reign in the crooked orc? I have learned this. For never, like mortal masters, have ye heavenly ones, ye all-preservers, That I should know, guided Me with caution on the level path. Let man test all things, say the heavenly ones, That he, vigorously nourished, thank you for all things, And understand the freedom to set out wherever he will.
My often stormed ship, the fierce winds game, The naughty waves ball that almost separated the tide, That ran over cliff 'on cliff' and foam and sand, Arrives before time, the port that my soul wants. Often, when black night came upon us at noon, the fast lightning burned the sails! How often have I misjudged the wind and north and south! How damaged is the mast, rudder, sword and keel. Get out, you weary spirit! Get out! We are on land! What frightens you for the port? Now you get rid of all bonds And fear and bitter pain and severe pain. Ade, cursed world. You sea full of rough storms: Happiness to, my fatherland, which keeps constant rest in umbrellas And protection and peace, you eternal castle!
We have gone through adversity and joy hand in hand, From wandering we both now rest over the still land. All around the valleys are sloping, The air is already dark, Two larks only rise into the fragrance, dreaming. Step forward and let them buzz, Soon it is bedtime, That we do not get lost in this solitude. Oh further, quiet peace! So deep in the twilight, How are we weary of wandering? Is this perhaps death?
I went home and slept as if The angels had cradled me. One rests in German beds so soft, For these are feather beds. How often do I long for the sweetness of the patriotic feeling, When I lay on hard mattresses, In the sleepless night of the exile! One sleeps very well and dreams well in our feather beds. Here the German soul feels free of all the chains of the earth. She feels free and soars up to the highest heavenly spaces. O German soul, how proud is your flight in your nighttime dreams! The gods fade away, when you approach! You have on your paths many a little starlet out of all the chains of the earth. She feels free and soars up to the highest heavenly spaces. Oh German soul, how proud is your flight in your nighttime dreams! The gods fade away, when you approach! You have
Two sails illuminating The deep blue bay! Two sails swelling To a calm escape! As one arches and moves in the winds, the sensation of the other is aroused. Desires one to hurry, The other goes quickly, Desires one to rest, His companion also rests.
Your soul, which loves mine, is forfeited with her in the carpet Tibet. Ray after ray, colors in love, stars that courted each other for heavenly length. Our feet rest on the preciousness, thousands upon thousands. Sweet son of a llama on a musk plant throne, How long has your mouth kissed mine, And Wang's cheek already colorful times?
Lost weapons, wheels without spokes, And overturned the iron carriages. From many puddles the smoke of the blood steams, Which black and red cover the brown dirt road. And whitish swells the belly of the dead horses, Which stretch their legs into the morning. In the cool wind still freezes the whimper of the dying, As in the east gates A pale shine appears, a green gleam, The thin band of the fleeting aura
The Potsdamer Platz in eternal roar Glaciers all echoing avalanches The street tracts: Trams on iron rails, automobiles and human waste. People run across the asphalt, ants busily, like lizards nimble. Forehead and hands, blinking with thoughts, swimming like sunlight through dark forest. Night rain envelops the square in a cave, Where bats, white, flap their wings And purple jellyfish lie - colorful oils; The multiply, cut by the carriages. - Splashes Berlin, the day glittering nest, From the smoke of the night like pus of a plague.
At noon the ravens hurry over the black corner with a hard cry. Their shadow wanders past the hind, And sometimes one sees them grumpily resting. Oh, how they disturb the brown silence, In which a field raptures itself, Like a woman who touches heavy foreboding, And sometimes one can hear them groaning Around a carcass that they smell somewhere, And suddenly they direct the flight to the north And disappear like a corpse In the air that trembles with lust.
A strong wind leapt up. Open the bleeding gates of the iron sky. Strike the towers. Sounding loud and supple over the iron plain of the city. The morning sun sooty. Trains thunder on dams. Golden angel ploughs plough through clouds. Strong wind over the pale city. Steamers and cranes awaken at the filthy flowing stream. Annoyingly the bells knock at the weathered cathedral. You see many women and girls going to work. In the pale light. Wild from the night. Their skirts weave. Limbs created for love. Towards the machine and grumpy toil. Look into the tender light. In the trees tender green. Listen! The sparrows shrine. And outside in wilder fields larks sing.
When we march - step by step - We listen: our heart beats with us. My heart and your heart, comrade. In the same beat: Soldier! Soldier! So row by row - step by step - columns stamp the same step. We suspect it big, we pray it already: This is the pulse of the nation. When we march - step by step - In our blood draw with The fathers all, the grandchildren already: In the eternal pulse of the nation. Soldier! Soldier! So step by step. Hear Germany, how it fought and suffered! Hear Germany, how it draws eternally, The best blood, into the heroic song!
The sea is our life / The waves of love are the fear / In which we float / The sails / Where the desiring wind blows / Is the thought cloth. Desire / Hope are the anchors. The magnet is beauty. Our whirlpool are bathsebs. The wine and abundance are the packs. The star / after which one steers the stiff sails / Is a dazed mouth. The port / where one thinks / Is a beautiful woman. The shores are the breasts. The approach is a kiss. The purpose / sweet lusts. But here is clouded / by blind burning smoke The sun of reason / so follows the shipwreck also The sinking of the soul / and the spoilage of the body: For beyde kills us the lust of a white.
Heart, my heart, what is that to give? What is so distressing to you? What a strange new life! I do not recognize you any more. Gone is all that you loved, Gone is the way why you grieved, Gone is your diligence and your rest? Oh, how did you come to it! Does the flower of youth, This lovely figure, This gaze full of faithfulness and goodness bind you with infinite force? Will I quickly withdraw from it, empower myself, escape it, Feel me in the moment, Oh, my way back to it. And by this magic thread, Which cannot be torn, the dear loose girl holds Me so against her will; must now live in her magic circles in her own way. The change, oh, how great! Love! Let me go!
<unk> Take the world! <unk> called Zeus from his heights to the people. <unk> Take it, it shall be yours! I give it to you as an inheritance and as a fief - but divide yourselves brotherly into it! <unk> There hastens' what has hands to arrange itself, It was busy young and old. <unk> The farmer reached for the fruits of the field, The junkie birdied through the forest. The merchant takes what his stores hold, The abbot chooses the noble Firnewein, The king closes the bridges and the streets And said: <unk> The tithe tithe is mine. <unk> Very late, after the division has long happened, the poet, he came from far away - Oh! there was nothing left to see everywhere, And everything had its master! <unk> Woe to me! So shall I alone be forgotten, I, your faithful son? <unk> So he let <unk>
