since feeling is first who pays any attention to the syntax of things will never wholly kiss you; wholly to be a fool while Spring is in the world my blood approves and kisses are a better fate than wisdom lady i swear by all flowers. Don"t cry —the best gesture of my brain is less than your eyelids" flutter which says we are for each other: then laugh, leaning back in my arms for life"s not a paragraph
How do I love thee? Let me count the ways. I love thee to the depth and breadth and height My soul can reach, when feeling out of sight For the ends of being and ideal grace. I love thee to the level of every day"s Most quiet need, by sun and candle-light. I love thee freely, as men strive for right. I love thee purely, as they turn from praise. I love thee with the passion put to use In my old griefs, and with my childhood"s faith. I love thee with a love I seemed to lose With my lost saints. I love thee with the breath, Smiles, tears, of all my life; and, if God choose, I shall but love thee better after death.
I wonder, by my troth, what thou and I Did, till we loved? Were we not weaned till then? But sucked on country pleasures, childishly? Or snorted we in the Seven Sleepers’ den? ’Twas so; but this, all pleasures fancies be. If ever any beauty I did see, Which I desired, and got, ’twas but a dream of thee. And now good-morrow to our waking souls, Which watch not one another out of fear; For love, all love of other sights controls, And makes one little room an everywhere. Let sea-discoverers to new worlds have gone, Let maps to other, worlds on worlds have shown, Let us possess one world, each hath one, and is one. My face in thine eye, thine in mine appears, And true plain hearts do in the faces rest; Where can we find two better hemispheres, Without sharp north, without declining west? Whatever dies, was not mixed equally; If our two loves be one, or, thou and I Love so alike, that none do slacken, none can die.
Happy the man, and happy he alone, He who can call today his own: He who, secure within, can say, Tomorrow do thy worst, for I have lived today. Be fair or foul or rain or shine The joys I have possessed, in spite of fate, are mine. Not Heaven itself upon the past has power, But what has been, has been, and I have had my hour.
Of Manners gentle , of Affections mild ; In Wit , a Man ; Simplicity , a Child : With native Humour temp"ring virtuous Rage , Form "d to delight at once and lash the age : Above Temptation , in a low Estate , And uncorrupted , ev"n among the Great : A safe Companion , and an easy Friend , Unblam "d thro ’ Life , lamented in thy End . These are Thy Honours ! not that here thy Bust Is mix "d with Heroes , or with Kings thy dust ; But that the Worthy and the Good shall say , Striking their pensive bosoms — Here lies GAY .
Music , when soft voices die , Vibrates in the memory — Odours , when sweet violets sicken , Live within the sense they quicken . Rose leaves , when the rose is dead , Are heaped for the beloved "s bed ; And so thy thoughts , when thou art gone , Love itself shall slumber on .
The sun is warm , the sky is clear , The waves are dancing fast and bright , Blue isles and snowy mountains wear The purple noon "s transparent might , The breath of the moist earth is light , Around its unexpanded buds ; Like many a voice of one delight , The winds , the birds , the ocean floods , The City "s voice itself , is soft like Solitude "s . I see the Deep "s untrampled floor With green and purple seaweeds strown ; I see the waves upon the shore , Like light dissolved in star-showers , thrown : I sit upon the sands alone ,— The lightning of the noontide ocean Is flashing round me , and a tone Arises from its measured motion , How sweet ! did any heart now share in my emotion . Alas ! I have nor hope nor health , Nor peace within nor calm around , Nor that content surpassing wealth The sage in meditation found , And walked with inward glory crowned — Nor fame , nor power , nor love , nor leisure . Others I see whom these surround — Smiling they live , and call life pleasure ;— To me that cup has been dealt in another measure . Yet now despair itself is mild , Even as the winds and waters are ; I could lie down like a tired child , And weep away the life of care Which I have borne and yet must bear , Till death like sleep might steal on me , And I might feel in the warm air My cheek grow cold , and hear the sea Breathe o"er my dying brain its last monotony . Some might lament that I were cold , As I , when this sweet day is gone , Which my lost heart , too soon grown old , Insults with this untimely moan ; They might lament — for I am one Whom men love not ,— and yet regret , Unlike this day , which , when the sun Shall on its stainless glory set , Will linger , though enjoyed , like joy in memory yet .
Break , break , break , On thy cold gray stones , O Sea ! And I would that my tongue could utter The thoughts that arise in me . O well for the fisherman "s boy , That he shouts with his sister at play ! O well for the sailor lad , That he sings in his boat on the bay ! And the stately ships go on To their haven under the hill ; But O for the touch of a vanish "d hand , And the sound of a voice that is still ! Break , break , break , At the foot of thy crags , O Sea ! But the tender grace of a day that is dead Will never come back to me .
TAKE up the White Man"s burden - Send forth the best ye breed - Go bind your sons to exile To serve your captives" need; To wait in heavy harness On fluttered folk and wild - Your new-caught sullen peoples, Half devil and half child. Take up the White Man"s burden - In patience to abide To veil the threat of terror And check the show of pride; By open speech and simple, An hundred times made plain, To seek another"s profit, And work another"s gain. Take up the White Man"s burden - The savage wars of peace - Fill full the mouth of famine And bid the sickness cease; And when your goal is nearest The end for others sought, Watch Sloth and heathen Folly Bring all your hopes to nought. Take up the White Man"s burden - No tawdry rule of kings, But toil of serf and sweeper - The tale of common things. The ports ye shall not enter, The roads ye shall not tread, Go make them with your living, And mark them with your dead ! Take up the White Man"s burden - And reap his old reward, The blame of those ye better, The hate of those ye guard - The cry of hosts ye humour (Ah slowly !) towards the light:- "Why brought ye us from bondage, "Our loved Egyptian night ?" Take up the White Man"s burden - Ye dare not stoop to less - Nor call too loud on Freedom To cloak your weariness; By all ye cry or whisper, By all ye leave or do, The silent sullen peoples Shall weigh your Gods and you. Take up the White Man"s burden - Have done with childish days - The lightly proffered laurel, The easy, ungrudged praise. Comes now, to search your manhood Through all the thankless years, Cold-edged with dear-bought wisdom, The judgement of your peers.
They shut the road through the woods Seventy years ago. Weather and rain have undone it again, And now you would never know There was once a road through the woods Before they planted the trees. It is underneath the coppice and heath, And the thin anemones. Only the keeper sees That, where the ring-dove broods, And the badgers roll at ease, There was once a road through the woods. Yet, if you enter the woods Of a summer evening late, When the night-air cools on the trout-ringed pools Where the otter whistles his mate, (They fear not men in the woods, Because they see so few.) You will hear the beat of a horse’s feet, And the swish of a skirt in the dew, Steadily cantering through The misty solitudes, As though they perfectly knew The old lost road through the woods. But there is no road through the woods.
O rose , thou art sick ! The invisible worm , That flies in the night , In the howling storm , Has found out thy bed Of crimson joy , And his dark secret love Does thy life destroy .
I was angry with my friend : I told my wrath , my wrath did end . I was angry with my foe : I told it not , my wrath did grow . And I watered it in fears Night and morning with my tears , And I sunned it with smiles And with soft deceitful wiles .
Earth has not anything to show more fair: Dull would he be of soul who could pass by A sight so touching in its majesty: This City now doth, like a garment, wear The beauty of the morning: silent, bare, Ships, towers, domes, theatres, and temples lie Open unto the fields, and to the sky; All bright and glittering in the smokeless air. Never did sun more beautifully steep In his first splendour, valley, rock, or hill; Ne’er saw I, never felt, a calm so deep! The river glideth at his own sweet will: Dear God! the very houses seem asleep; And all that mighty heart is lying still!
My heart leaps up when I behold A rainbow in the sky: So was it when my life began; So is it now I am a man; So be it when I shall grow old, Or let me die! The Child is father of the Man; And I could wish my days to be Bound each to each by natural piety.
I tell you, hopeless grief is passionless; That only men incredulous of despair, Half-taught in anguish, through the midnight air Beat upward to God’s throne in loud access Of shrieking and reproach. Full desertness, In souls as countries, lieth silent-bare Under the blanching, vertical eye-glare Of the absolute heavens. Deep-hearted man, express Grief for thy dead in silence like to death— Most like a monumental statue set In everlasting watch and moveless woe Till itself crumble to the dust beneath. Touch it; the marble eyelids are not wet: If it could weep, it could arise and go.
Let the world "s sharpness , like a clasping knife , Shut in upon itself and do no harm In this close hand of Love , now soft and warm , And let us hear no sound of human strife After the click of the shutting . Life to life — I lean upon thee , Dear , without alarm , And feel as safe as guarded by a charm Against the stab of worldlings , who if rife Are weak to injure . Very-whitely still The lilies of our lives may reassure Their blossoms from their roots , accessible Alone to heavenly dews that drop not fewer Growing straight , out of man "s reach , on the hill . God only , who made us rich , can make us poor .
AH, how sweet it is to love! Ah, how gay is young Desire! And what pleasing pains we prove When we first approach Love"s fire! Pains of love be sweeter far Than all other pleasures are. Sighs which are from lovers blown Do but gently heave the heart: Ev"n the tears they shed alone Cure, like trickling balm, their smart: Lovers, when they lose their breath, Bleed away in easy death. Love and Time with reverence use, Treat them like a parting friend; Nor the golden gifts refuse Which in youth sincere they send: For each year their price is more, And they less simple than before. Love, like spring-tides full and high, Swells in every youthful vein; But each tide does less supply, Till they quite shrink in again: If a flow in age appear, "Tis but rain, and runs not clear.
FROM harmony , from heavenly harmony This universal frame began : When nature underneath a heap Of jarring atoms lay , And could not heave her head , The tuneful voice was heard from high , Arise , ye more than dead . Then cold , and hot , and moist , and dry , In order to their stations leap , And Music "s power obey . From harmony , from heavenly harmony This universal frame began : From harmony to harmony Through all the compass of the notes it rail , The diapason closing full in Man . What passion cannot Music raise and quell ? When Jubal struck the chorded shell , His listening brethren stood around , And , wondering , on their faces fell To worship that celestial sound . Less than a God they thought there could not dwell Within the hollow of that shell , That spoke so sweetly and so well . What passion cannot Music raise and quell ? The trumpet "s loud clangour Excites us to arms , With shrill notes of anger , And mortal alarms . The double double double beat Of the thundering drum Cries , hark ! the foes come ; Charge , charge ! " tis too late to retreat . The soft complaining flute In dying notes discovers The woes of hopeless lovers , Whose dirge is whisper "d by the warbling lute . Sharp violins proclaim Their jealous pangs , and desperation , Fury , frantic indignation , Depth of pains , and height of passion , For the fair , disdainful dame . But oh ! what art can teach , What human voice can reach , The sacred organ "s praise ? Notes inspiring holy love , Notes that wing their heavenly ways To mend the choirs above . Orpheus could lead the savage race ; And trees uprooted left their place , Sequacious of the lyre : But bright Cecilia raised the wonder higher : When to her organ vocal breath was given , An angel heard , and straight appear "d , Mistaking earth for heaven .
The flower that smiles to-day To-morrow dies ; All that we wish to stay Tempts and then flies . What is this world "s delight ? Lightning that mocks the night , Brief even as bright . Virtue , how frail it is ! Friendship how rare ! Love , how it sells poor bliss For proud despair ! But we , though soon they fall , Survive their joy , and all Which ours we call . Whilst skies are blue and bright , Whilst flowers are gay , Whilst eyes that change ere night Make glad the day ; Whilst yet the calm hours creep , Dream thou — and from thy sleep Then wake to weep .
John Anderson , my jo , John , When we were first acquent ; Your locks were like the raven , Your bonie brow was brent ; But now your brow is beld , John , Your locks are like the snaw ; But blessings on your frosty pow , John Anderson , my jo . John Anderson , my jo , John , We clamb the hill thegither ; And mony a cantie day , John , We "ve had wi ’ ane anither : Now we maun totter down , John , And hand in hand we "ll go , And sleep thegither at the foot , John Anderson , my jo .
The expense of spirit in a waste of shame Is lust in action : and till action , lust Is perjur "d , murderous , bloody , full of blame , Savage , extreme , rude , cruel , not to trust ; Enjoy "d no sooner but despised straight ; Past reason hunted ; and no sooner had , Past reason hated , as a swallow "d bait , On purpose laid to make the taker mad : Mad in pursuit and in possession so ; Had , having , and in quest , to have extreme ; A bliss in proof ,— and prov "d , a very woe ; Before , a joy propos "d ; behind a dream . All this the world well knows ; yet none knows well To shun the heaven that leads men to this hell .
When my love swears that she is made of truth , I do believe her , though I know she lies , That she might think me some untutor "d youth , Unskilful in the world "s false forgeries , Thus vainly thinking that she thinks me young , Although I know my years be past the best , I smiling credit her false-speaking tongue , Outfacing faults in love with love "s ill rest . But wherefore says my love that she is young ? And wherefore say not I that I am old ? O , love "s best habit is a soothing tongue , And age , in love , loves not to have years told . Therefore , I "ll lie with love , and love with me , Since that our faults in love thus smother "d be .
Sunset and evening star, And one clear call for me! And may there be no moaning of the bar, When I put out to sea, But such a tide as moving seems asleep, Too full for sound and foam, When that which drew from out the boundless deep Turns again home. Twilight and evening bell, And after that the dark! And may there be no sadness of farewell, When I embark; For tho’ from out our bourne of Time and Place The flood may bear me far, I hope to see my Pilot face to face When I have crost the bar.
Tyger , tyger , burning bright In the forests of the night , What immortal hand or eye Could frame thy fearful symmetry ? In what distant deeps or skies Burnt the fire of thine eyes ? On what wings dare he aspire ? What the hand dare seize the fire ? And what shoulder and what art Could twist the sinews of thy heart ? And , when thy heart began to beat , What dread hand and what dread feet ? What the hammer ? what the chain ? In what furnace was thy brain ? What the anvil ? what dread grasp Dare its deadly terrors clasp ? When the stars threw down their spears , And watered heaven with their tears , Did he smile his work to see ? Did he who made the lamb make thee ? Tyger , tyger , burning bright In the forests of the night , What immortal hand or eye Dare frame thy fearful symmetry ?
A sudden blow: the great wings beating still Above the staggering girl, her thighs caressed By the dark webs, her nape caught in his bill, He holds her helpless breast upon his breast. How can those terrified vague fingers push The feathered glory from her loosening thighs? And how can body, laid in that white rush, But feel the strange heart beating where it lies? A shudder in the loins engenders there The broken wall, the burning roof and tower And Agamemnon dead. Being so caught up, So mastered by the brute blood of the air, Did she put on his knowledge with his power Before the indifferent beak could let her drop?
Half a league , half a league , Half a league onward , All in the valley of Death Rode the six hundred . ‘ Forward , the Light Brigade ! ’ ‘ Charge for the guns ! ’ he said : Into the valley of Death Rode the six hundred . ‘ Forward , the Light Brigade ! ’ Was there a man dismay "d ? Not tho ’ the soldier knew Some one had blunder "d : Their "s not to make reply , Their "s not to reason why , Their "s but to do and die : Into the valley of Death Rode the six hundred . Cannon to right of them , Cannon to left of them , Cannon in front of them Volley "d and thunder "d ; Storm "d at with shot and shell , Boldly they rode and well , Into the jaws of Death , Into the mouth of Hell Rode the six hundred . Flash "d all their sabres bare , Flash "d as they turn "d in air , Sabring the gunners there , Charging an army , while All the world wonder "d : Plunged in the battery-smoke Right thro ’ the line they broke ; Cossack and Russian Reel "d from the sabre-stroke Shatter "d and sunder "d . Then they rode back , but not Not the six hundred . Cannon to right of them , Cannon to left of them , Cannon behind them Volley "d and thunder "d ; Storm "d at with shot and shell , While horse and hero fell , They that had fought so well Came thro ’ the jaws of Death , Back from the mouth of Hell , All that was left of them , Left of six hundred . When can their glory fade ? O the wild charge they made ! All the world wondered . Honor the charge they made ! Honor the Light Brigade , Noble six hundred !
Pain has an element of blank ; It cannot recollect When it began , or if there were A day when it was not . It has no future but itself , Its infinite realms contain Its past , enlightened to perceive New periods of pain .
I taste a liquor never brewed , From tankards scooped in pearl ; Not all the vats upon the Rhine Yield such an alcohol ! Inebriate of air am I , And debauchee of dew , Reeling , through endless summer days , From inns of molten blue . When landlords turn the drunken bee Out of the foxglove "s door , When butterflies renounce their drams , I shall but drink the more ! Till seraphs swing their snowy hats , And saints to windows run , To see the little tippler Leaning against the sun !
Bright star, would I were stedfast as thou art— Not in lone splendour hung aloft the night And watching, with eternal lids apart, Like nature’s patient, sleepless Eremite, The moving waters at their priestlike task Of pure ablution round earth’s human shores, Or gazing on the new soft-fallen mask Of snow upon the mountains and the moors— No—yet still stedfast, still unchangeable, Pillow’d upon my fair love’s ripening breast, To feel for ever its soft fall and swell, Awake for ever in a sweet unrest, Still, still to hear her tender-taken breath, And so live ever—or else swoon to death.
My spirit is too weak—mortality Weighs heavily on me like unwilling sleep, And each imagined pinnacle and steep Of godlike hardship tells me I must die Like a sick eagle looking at the sky. Yet ‘tis a gentle luxury to weep, That I have not the cloudy winds to keep, Fresh for the opening of the morning’s eye. Such dim-conceived glories of the brain Bring round the heart an indescribable feud; So do these wonders a most dizzy pain, That mingles Grecian grandeur with the rude Wasting of old Time—with a billowy main— A sun—a shadow of a magnitude.
Ye flowery banks o ’ bonie Doon , How can ye blume sae fair ? How can ye chant , ye little birds , And I sae fu ’ o care ! Thou "ll break my heart , thou bonie bird , That sings upon the bough ! Thou minds me o ’ the happy days When my fause Luve was true . Thou "ll break my heart , thou bonie bird , That sings beside thy mate ; For sae I sat , and sae I sang , And wist na o ’ my fate . Aft hae I rov "d by bonie Doon , To see the woodbine twine ; And ilka bird sang o ’ its Luve , And sae did I o ’ mine . Wi ’ lightsome heart I pu "d a rose , Upon its thorny tree ; But my fause Luver staw my rose , And left the thorn wi ’ me . Wi ’ lightsome heart I pu "d a rose , Upon a morn in June ; And sae I flourished on the morn , And sae was pu "d or noon .
Is there for honest Poverty That hings his head , an ’ a ’ that ; The coward slave — we pass him by , We dare be poor for a ’ that ! For a ’ that , an ’ a ’ that . Our toils obscure an ’ a ’ that , The rank is but the guinea "s stamp , The Man "s the gowd for a ’ that . What though on hamely fare we dine , Wear hoddin grey , an ’ a that ; Gie fools their silks , and knaves their wine ; A Man "s a Man for a ’ that : For a ’ that , and a ’ that , Their tinsel show , an ’ a ’ that ; The honest man , tho ’ e"er sae poor , Is king o ’ men for a ’ that . Ye see yon birkie , ca "d a lord , Wha struts , an ’ stares , an ’ a ’ that ; Tho ’ hundreds worship at his word , He "s but a coof for a ’ that : For a ’ that , an ’ a ’ that , His ribband , star , an ’ a ’ that : The man o ’ independent mind He looks an ’ laughs at a ’ that . A prince can mak a belted knight , A marquis , duke , an ’ a ’ that ; But an honest man "s abon his might , Gude faith , he maunna fa ’ that ! For a ’ that , an ’ a ’ that , Their dignities an ’ a ’ that ; The pith o ’ sense , an ’ pride o ’ worth , Are higher rank than a ’ that . Then let us pray that come it may , ( As come it will for a ’ that ,) That Sense and Worth , o"er a ’ the earth , Shall bear the gree , an ’ a ’ that . For a ’ that , an ’ a ’ that , It "s coming yet for a ’ that , That Man to Man , the world o"er , Shall brothers be for a ’ that .
They are rattling breakfast plates in basement kitchens , And along the trampled edges of the street I am aware of the damp souls of housemaids Sprouting despondently at area gates . The brown waves of fog toss up to me Twisted faces from the bottom of the street , And tear from a passer-by with muddy skirts An aimless smile that hovers in the air And vanishes along the level of the roofs .
The winter evening settles down With smell of steaks in passageways . Six o"clock . The burnt-out ends of smoky days . And now a gusty shower wraps The grimy scraps Of withered leaves about your feet And newspapers from vacant lots ; The showers beat On broken blinds and chimney-pots , And at the corner of the street A lonely cab-horse steams and stamps . And then the lighting of the lamps . The morning comes to consciousness Of faint stale smells of beer From the sawdust-trampled street With all its muddy feet that press To early coffee-stands . With the other masquerades That time resumes , One thinks of all the hands That are raising dingy shades In a thousand furnished rooms . You tossed a blanket from the bed , You lay upon your back , and waited ; You dozed , and watched the night revealing The thousand sordid images Of which your soul was constituted ; They flickered against the ceiling . And when all the world came back And the light crept up between the shutters , And you heard the sparrows in the gutters , You had such a vision of the street As the street hardly understands ; Sitting along the bed "s edge , where You curled the papers from your hair , Or clasped the yellow soles of feet In the palms of both soiled hands . His soul stretched tight across the skies That fade behind a city block , Or trampled by insistent feet At four and five and six o"clock And short square fingers stuffing pipes , And evening newspapers , and eyes Assured of certain certainties , The conscience of a blackened street Impatient to assume the world . I am moved by fancies that are curled Around these images , and cling : The notion of some infinitely gentle Infinitely suffering thing . Wipe your hand across your mouth , and laugh ; The worlds revolve like ancient women Gathering fuel in vacant lots .
Nor dread nor hope attend A dying animal; A man awaits his end Dreading and hoping all; Many times he died, Many times rose again, A great man in his pride Confronting murderous men Casts derision upon Supersession of breath; He knows death to the bone – Man has created death.
Turning and turning in the widening gyre The falcon cannot hear the falconer; Things fall apart; the centre cannot hold; Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world, The blood-dimmed tide is loosed, and everywhere The ceremony of innocence is drowned; The best lack all conviction, while the worst Are full of passionate intensity. Surely some revelation is at hand; Surely the Second Coming is at hand. The Second Coming! Hardly are those words out When a vast image out of Spiritus Mundi Troubles my sight: somewhere in sands of the desert A shape with lion body and the head of a man, A gaze blank and pitiless as the sun, Is moving its slow thighs, while all about it Reel shadows of the indignant desert birds. The darkness drops again; but now I know That twenty centuries of stony sleep Were vexed to nightmare by a rocking cradle, And what rough beast, its hour come round at last, Slouches towards Bethlehem to be born?
Of all the Poisons that the fruitful Earth E"er yet brought forth , or Monsters she gave Birth , Nought to Mankind has e"er so fatal been , As thou , accursed Gold , their Care and Sin . Methinks I the Advent"rous Merchant see , Ploughing the faithless Seas , in search of thee , His dearest Wife and Children left behind , ( His real Wealth ) while he , a Slave to th ’ Wind , Sometimes becalm "d , the Shore with longing Eyes Wishes to see , and what he wishes , Spies : For a rude Tempest wakes him from his Dream , And Strands his Bark by a more sad Extream . Thus , hopless Wretch , is his whole Life-time spent , And though thrice Wreck"t , ‘ s no Wiser than he went . Again , I see , the Heavenly Fair despis "d , A Hagg like Hell , with Gold , more highly priz "d ; Mens Faith betray "d , their Prince and Country Sold , Their God deny "d , all for the Idol Gold . Unhappy Wretch , who first found out the Oar , What kind of Vengeance rests for thee in store ? If Nebats Son , that Israel led astray , Meet a severe Reward at the last Day ? Some strange unheard-of Judgement thou wilt find , Who thus hast caus "d to Sin all Humane Kind .
When first Alexis did in Verse delight , His Muse in Low , but Graceful Numbers walk"t , And now and then a little Proudly stalk"t ; But never aim "d at any noble Flight : The Herds , the Groves , the gentle purling Streams , Adorn "d his Song , and were his highest Theams . But Love these Thoughts , like Mists , did soon disperse , Enlarg "d his Fancy , and set free his Muse , Biding him more Illustrious Subjects choose ; The Acts of Gods , and God-like Men reherse . From thence new Raptures did his Breast inspire , His scarce Warm-Heart converted was to Fire . Th ’ exalted Poet rais "d by this new Flame , With Vigor flys , where late he crept along , And Acts Divine , in a Diviner Song , Commits to the eternal Trompe of Fame . And thus Alexis does prove Love to be , As the Worlds Soul , the Soul of Poetry .
Success is counted sweetest By those who ne"er succeed . To comprehend a nectar Requires sorest need . Not one of all the purple host Who took the flag to-day Can tell the definition , So clear , of victory , As he , defeated , dying , On whose forbidden ear The distant strains of triumph Break , agonized and clear !
I felt a funeral in my brain , And mourners , to and fro , Kept treading , treading , till it seemed That sense was breaking through . And when they all were seated , A service like a drum Kept beating , beating , till I thought My mind was going numb . And then I heard them lift a box , And creak across my soul With those same boots of lead , again . Then space began to toll As all the heavens were a bell , And Being but an ear , And I and silence some strange race , Wrecked , solitary , here . And then a Plank in Reason, broke, And I dropped down, and down - And hit a World, at every plunge, And Finished knowing - then -
WHEN I consider how my light is spent Ere half my days in this dark world and wide, And that one Talent which is death to hide Lodged with me useless, though my soul more bent To serve therewith my Maker, and present My true account, lest He returning chide, “Doth God exact day-labour, light denied?” I fondly ask. But Patience, to prevent That murmur, soon replies, “God doth not need Either man’s work or his own gifts. Who best Bear his mild yoke, they serve him best. His state Is kingly: thousands at his bidding speed, And post o’er land and ocean without rest; They also serve who only stand and wait.”
HOW soon hath Time, the subtle thief of youth, Stolen on his wing my three and twentieth year! My hasting days fly on with full career, But my late spring no bud or blossom shew’th. Perhaps my semblance might deceive the truth, That I to manhood am arrived so near, And inward ripeness doth much less appear, That some more timely-happy spirits indu’th. Yet be it less or more, or soon or slow, It shall be still in strictest measure even To that same lot, however mean or high, Toward which Time leads me, and the will of Heaven, All is, if I have grace to use it so, As ever in my great Task-master’s eye
THERE was never a sound beside the wood but one , And that was my long scythe whispering to the ground . What was it it whispered ? I knew not well myself ; Perhaps it was something about the heat of the sun , Something , perhaps , about the lack of sound — And that was why it whispered and did not speak . It was no dream of the gift of idle hours , Or easy gold at the hand of fay or elf : Anything more than the truth would have seemed too weak To the earnest love that laid the swale in rows , Not without feeble-pointed spikes of flowers ( Pale orchises ) , and scared a bright green snake . The fact is the sweetest dream that labor knows . My long scythe whispered and left the hay to make .
Some say the world will end in fire, Some say in ice. From what I’ve tasted of desire I hold with those who favor fire. But if it had to perish twice, I think I know enough of hate To say that for destruction ice Is also great And would suffice.
I hear America singing , the varied carols I hear , Those of mechanics , each one singing his as it should be blithe and strong , The carpenter singing his as he measures his plank or beam , The mason singing his as he makes ready for work , or leaves off work , The boatman singing what belongs to him in his boat , the deckhand singing on the steamboat deck , The shoemaker singing as he sits on his bench , the hatter singing as he stands , The wood-cutter "s song , the ploughboy "s on his way in the morning , or at noon intermission or at sundown , The delicious singing of the mother , or of the young wife at work , or of the girl sewing or washing , Each singing what belongs to him or her and to none else , The day what belongs to the day — at night the party of young fellows , robust , friendly , Singing with open mouths their strong melodious songs .
O Captain! my Captain! our fearful trip is done, The ship has weather’d every rack, the prize we sought is won, The port is near, the bells I hear, the people all exulting, While follow eyes the steady keel, the vessel grim and daring; But O heart! heart! heart! O the bleeding drops of red, Where on the deck my Captain lies, Fallen cold and dead. O Captain! my Captain! rise up and hear the bells; Rise up—for you the flag is flung—for you the bugle trills, For you bouquets and ribbon’d wreaths—for you the shores a-crowding, For you they call, the swaying mass, their eager faces turning; Here Captain! dear father! This arm beneath your head! It is some dream that on the deck, You’ve fallen cold and dead. My Captain does not answer, his lips are pale and still, My father does not feel my arm, he has no pulse nor will, The ship is anchor’d safe and sound, its voyage closed and done, From fearful trip the victor ship comes in with object won; Exult O shores, and ring O bells! But I with mournful tread, Walk the deck my Captain lies, Fallen cold and dead.
If I when my wife is sleeping and the baby and Kathleen are sleeping and the sun is a flame-white disc in silken mists above shining trees ,— if I in my north room danse naked , grotesquely before my mirror waving my shirt round my head and singing softly to myself : “I am lonely, lonely. I was born to be lonely . I am best so !” If I admire my arms , my face, my shoulders , flanks , buttocks against the yellow drawn shades ,— who shall say I am not the happy genius of my household ?
OLD age is a flight of small cheeping birds skimming bare trees above a snow glaze. Gaining and failing they are buffeted by a dark wind-- But what? On harsh weedstalks the flock has rested, the snow is covered with broken seedhusks and the wind tempered by a shrill piping of plenty.
My love is like to ice, and I to fire: How comes it then that this her cold so great Is not dissolved through my so hot desire, But harder grows the more I her entreat? Or how comes it that my exceeding heat Is not allayed by her heart-frozen cold, But that I burn much more in boiling sweat, And feel my flames augmented manifold? What more miraculous thing may be told, That fire, which all things melts, should harden ice, And ice, which is congeal"s with senseless cold, Should kindle fire by wonderful device? Such is the power of love in gentle mind, That it can alter all the course of kind.
Of this worlds theatre in which we stay, My love like the spectator ydly sits Beholding me that all the pageants play, Disguysing diversly my troubled wits. Sometimes I joy when glad occasion fits, And mask in myrth lyke to a comedy: Soone after when my joy to sorrow flits, I waile and make my woes a tragedy. Yet she, beholding me with constant eye, Delights not in my merth nor rues my smart: But when I laugh she mocks, and when I cry She laughs and hardens evermore her heart. What then can move her? if nor merth nor mone, She is no woman, but a senceless stone.
Happy the man whose wish and care A few paternal acres bound , Content to breathe his native air , In his own ground . Whose herds with milk , whose fields with bread , Whose flocks supply him with attire , Whose trees in summer yield him shade , In winter fire . Blest , who can unconcern"dly find Hours , days , and years slide soft away , In health of body , peace of mind , Quiet by day , Sound sleep by night ; study and ease , Together mixt ; sweet recreation ; And Innocence , which most does please With meditation . Thus let me live , unseen , unknown , Thus unlamented let me die , Steal from the world , and not a stone Tell where I lie .
?o baby i Death if Death were good:for begin to feel of it,dying "s miraculous why?be perfectly natural;perfectly putting it mildly lively(but is strictly scientific &amp; artificial &amp; we thank thee god almighty for dying (forgive us,o life!the sin of Death
i carry your heart with me(i carry it in my heart)i am never without it(anywhere i go you go,my dear;and whatever is done by only me is your doing,my darling) i fear no fate(for you are my fate,my sweet)i want no world(for beautiful you are my world,my true) and it’s you are whatever a moon has always meant and whatever a sun will always sing is you here is the deepest secret nobody knows (here is the root of the root and the bud of the bud and the sky of the sky of a tree called life;which grows higher than soul can hope or mind can hide) and this is the wonder that"s keeping the stars apart
In vain , in vain — the all-composing Hour Resistless falls : the Muse obeys the Pow"r . She comes ! she comes ! the sable Throne behold Of Night primæval and of Chaos old ! Before her , Fancy "s gilded clouds decay , And all its varying Rain-bows die away . Wit shoots in vain its momentary fires , The meteor drops , and in a flash expires . As one by one , at dread Medea "s strain , The sick"ning stars fade off th ’ ethereal plain ; As Argus ’ eyes by Hermes ’ wand opprest , Clos "d one by one to everlasting rest ; Thus at her felt approach , and secret might , Art after Art goes out , and all is Night . See skulking Truth to her old cavern fled , Mountains of Casuistry heap "d o"er her head ! Philosophy , that lean "d on Heav"n before , Shrinks to her second cause , and is no more . Physic of Metaphysic begs defence , And Metaphysic calls for aid on Sense ! See Mystery to Mathematics fly ! In vain ! they gaze , turn giddy , rave , and die . Religion blushing veils her sacred fires , And unawares Morality expires . For public Flame , nor private , dares to shine ; Nor human Spark is left , nor Glimpse divine ! Lo ! thy dread Empire , CHAOS ! is restor "d ; Light dies before thy uncreating word ; Thy hand , great Anarch ! lets the curtain fall , And universal Darkness buries All .
I "m nobody ! Who are you ? Are you nobody , too ? Then there ‘ s a pair of us — do n"t tell ! They ‘ d banish us , you know . How dreary to be somebody ! How public , like a frog To tell your name the livelong day To an admiring bog !
Marke but this flea , and marke in this , How little that which thou deny"st me is ; It suck "d me first , and now sucks thee , And in this flea , our two bloods mingled bee ; Thou know"st that this cannot be said A sinne , nor shame , nor losse of maidenhead , Yet this enjoyes before it wooe , And pamper "d swells with one blood made of two , And this , alas , is more then wee would doe . Oh stay , three lives in one flea spare , Where wee almost , yea more then maryed are . This flea is you and I , and this Our mariage bed , and mariage temple is ; Though parents grudge , and you , w"are met , And cloysterd in these living walls of Jet . Though use make you apt to kill mee , Let not to that , selfe murder added bee , And sacrilege , three sinnes in killing three . Cruell and sodaine , hast thou since Purpled thy naile , in blood of innocence ? Wherein could this flea guilty bee , Except in that drop which it suckt from thee ? Yet thou triumph"st , and saist that thou Find"st not thy selfe , nor mee the weaker now ; ‘ Tis true , then learne how false , feares bee ; 25 Just so much honor , when thou yeeld"st to mee , Will wast , as this flea "s death tooke life from thee .
NOW the bright morning-star, Day’s harbinger, Comes dancing from the East, and leads with her The flowery May, who from her green lap throws The yellow cowslip and the pale primrose. Hail, bounteous May, that dost inspire Mirth, and youth, and warm desire! Woods and groves are of thy dressing; Hill and dale doth boast thy blessing. Thus we salute thee with our early song, And welcome thee, and wish thee long.
I met a traveller from an antique land Who said : Two vast and trunkless legs of stone Stand in the desert ... Near them , on the sand , Half sunk , a shattered visage lies , whose frown , And wrinkled lip , and sneer of cold command , Tell that its sculptor well those passions read Which yet survive , stamped on these lifeless things , The hand that mocked them , and the heart that fed : And on the pedestal these words appear : ‘ My name is Ozymandias , king of kings : Look on my works , ye Mighty , and despair ! ’ Nothing beside remains . Round the decay Of that colossal wreck , boundless and bare The lone and level sands stretch far away .
Snow falling and night falling fast, oh, fast In a field I looked into going past, And the ground almost covered smooth in snow, But a few weeds and stubble showing last. The woods around it have it--it is theirs. All animals are smothered in their lairs. I am too absent-spirited to count; The loneliness includes me unawares. And lonely as it is that loneliness Will be more lonely ere it will be less-- A blanker whiteness of benighted snow With no expression, nothing to express. They cannot scare me with their empty spaces Between stars--on stars where no human race is. I have it in me so much nearer home To scare myself with my own desert places.
If you can keep your head when all about you Are losing theirs and blaming it on you, If you can trust yourself when all men doubt you, But make allowance for their doubting too; If you can wait and not be tired by waiting, Or being lied about, don’t deal in lies, Or being hated, don’t give way to hating, And yet don’t look too good, nor talk too wise: If you can dream—and not make dreams your master; If you can think—and not make thoughts your aim; If you can meet with Triumph and Disaster And treat those two impostors just the same; If you can bear to hear the truth you’ve spoken Twisted by knaves to make a trap for fools, Or watch the things you gave your life to, broken, And stoop and build ’em up with worn-out tools: If you can make one heap of all your winnings And risk it on one turn of pitch-and-toss, And lose, and start again at your beginnings And never breathe a word about your loss; If you can force your heart and nerve and sinew To serve your turn long after they are gone, And so hold on when there is nothing in you Except the Will which says to them: ‘Hold on!’ If you can talk with crowds and keep your virtue, Or walk with Kings—nor lose the common touch, If neither foes nor loving friends can hurt you, If all men count with you, but none too much; If you can fill the unforgiving minute With sixty seconds’ worth of distance run, Yours is the Earth and everything that’s in it, And—which is more—you’ll be a Man, my son!
A noiseless patient spider , I mark "d where on a little promontory it stood isolated , Mark "d how to explore the vacant vast surrounding , It launch "d forth filament , filament , filament out of itself , Ever unreeling them , ever tirelessly speeding them . And you O my soul where you stand , Surrounded , detached , in measureless oceans of space , Ceaselessly musing , venturing , throwing , seeking the spheres to connect them , Till the bridge you will need be form "d , till the ductile anchor hold , Till the gossamer thread you fling catch somewhere , O my soul .
I wandered through each chartered street , Near where the chartered Thames does flow , A mark in every face I meet , Marks of weakness , marks of woe . In every cry of every man , In every infant "s cry of fear , In every voice , in every ban , The mind-forged manacles I hear : How the chimney-sweeper "s cry Every blackening church appalls , And the hapless soldier "s sigh Runs in blood down palace-walls . But most , through midnight streets I hear How the youthful harlot "s curse Blasts the new-born infant "s tear , And blights with plagues the marriage-hearse .
AT ten A.M. the young housewife moves about in negligee behind the wooden walls of her husband"s house. I pass solitary in my car. Then again she comes to the curb to call the ice-man, fish-man, and stands shy, uncorseted, tucking in stray ends of hair, and I compare her to a fallen leaf. The noiseless wheels of my car rush with a crackling sound over dried leaves as I bow and pass smiling.
I wandered lonely as a Cloud That floats on high over Vales and Hills , When all at once I saw a crowd A host of dancing Daffodills ; Along the Lake , beneath the trees , Ten thousand dancing in the breeze . Continuous as the stars that shine And twinkle on the milky way, They stretched in never-ending line Along the margin of a bay: Ten thousand saw I at a glance, Tossing their heads in sprightly dance. The waves beside them danced , but they Outdid the sparkling waves in glee :— A Poet could not but be gay In such a laughing company : I gazed — and gazed — but little thought What wealth the shew to me had brought : For oft when on my couch I lie In vacant or in pensive mood , They flash upon that inward eye Which is the bliss of solitude , And then my heart with pleasure fills , And dances with the Daffodils .
There is a weeping in the world, as if the dear God had died, And the leaden shadow that falls down weighs heavily on the grave. Come, let us hide ourselves closer? Life lies in all hearts As in coffins. You! let us kiss deeply - There throbs a longing for the world from which we must die.
The moon emerges from the yellow wall of clouds. The lunatics hang from the bars, like great spiders glued to walls. Her hand drives along the garden fence. In open halls one sees dancers floating. It is the ball of the lunatics. Suddenly, the madness cries out. The roar spreads far, That all the walls tremble from the noise. With whom he has just spoken about Hume, The doctor is seized by a lunatic with violence. He lies in the blood. His skull is broken. The bunch of lunatics look amused. But soon they reveal, as the whip pops far away, like mice crawling into the earth.
Oh, the madness of the great city, when in the evening crippled trees stare at a black wall, the spirit of evil looks out of a silver mask; light with a magnetic scourge suppresses the stony night. Oh, the sunken ringing of the evening bells. Whore who gives birth to a dead child in icy showers. Fury of God whips the foreheads of the possessed, Purple plague, hunger that shatters green eyes. Oh, the ghastly laughter of gold. But silent bleeds in a dark cave dumb mankind, Add the redeeming head of hard metals.
In an old book I came across a word that struck me like a blow and burns away through my days: And when I forgive myself for gloomy lust, when I lift up appearances, lies and games to me instead of the being, When I lie to myself with a swift sense, As if dark things were clear, as if life did not carry a thousand wildly locked gates, And contradict words whose breadth I never felt, And grasp things whose being never troubled me, When a welcome dream strokes me with velvet walls, And day and reality escapes from me, Alienated from the world, alien to the deepest I, Then the word rises to me: Man, become essential!
Heaven, great, full of splendid behavior, a store of space, an abundance of world. And we, too far away to be arranged, too near to be turned away. There falls a star! And our desire for it, bewildered gaze, urgently connected: What has begun, and what has passed away? What is to blame? And what is to be forgiven?
And fresh food, new blood suck? I from a free world; How is nature so good and good, Who holds me by the bosom! The wave cradles our barge in the rowing beat, And mountains, cloudy sky, Meet our course. Aug?, my eye? Why do you sink? Golden dreams come back to you? Away, you dream! as gold you are; Here is also love? and life. On the wave twinkling a thousand floating stars, Soft mists drink the thundering distance; Morning wind winges around The shaded bay, And in the lake the ripening fruit reflects.
Did a boy see a little horse standing, little horse on the heathens, Was so young and beautiful in the morning, Did he run quickly to see it, Saw it with many joys. Little horse, little horse, little horse on the heathens. Boy said, I break you, little horse on the heathens. Little horse said, I stab you, That you may remember me forever, And I will not suffer. Little horse, little horse, little horse on the heathens. And the wild boy broke? s little horse on the heathens. Little horse fought back and stabbed him, But no woe or woe helped him, Must he suffer. Little horse, little horse, little horse on the heathens.
Long years ago the nightingale sang, That was sweet sound, Since we were together. I sing and cannot weep, And spin so alone The thread clear and pure As long as the moon will shine. When we were together The nightingale sang Now her sound admonishes me That thou hast departed from me. As often as the moon may seem, I think of thine alone. My heart is clear and pure, God will unite us. Ever since thou sailed from me, the nightingale always sings, I think of her sound, As we were together. God will unite us Here I spin so alone, The moon shines clear and pure, I sing and want to weep.
In a cool ground there goes a mill wheel, My beloved is gone, Who has lived there. She has promised me faithfulness, Gave me a ring with her, She has broken her faithfulness, My little ring jumped in two. I want to travel as a minstrel Far out into the world, And sing my wise men, And go from house to house. I want to fly as a rider Well into the bloody battle, To lie still fire In the field in the dark night. I hear the mill wheel go: I do not know what I want - I would like to die, There it would be suddenly silent!
Fear of Tharau is what pleases me, She is my life, my property and my money. Fear of Tharau has again turned her heart to me, in love and in pain Fear of Tharau, my wealth, my property, You my soul, my flesh and my blood. If all weather came to us at once, We are minded to stand together. Disease, persecution, sorrow and anguish shall be the bonding of our love. Fear of Tharau, my wealth, my property, You my soul, my flesh and my blood. Right as a palm tree rises above itself, the more hail and rain attacks it: Thus shall the love in us become mighty and great, Through cross, through suffering, through all kinds of adversity. Fear of Tharau, my wealth, my property, You my soul, my flesh and my blood. If you would
I do not know what it means that I am so sad; A fairy tale from ancient times, that does not come out of my mind. The air is cool and it is dark, And the Rhine flows calmly; The summit of the mountain sparkles in the evening sunshine. The most beautiful maiden sits up there wonderfully; Her golden jewels sparkle, She combs her golden hair. She combs it with a golden comb And sings a song with it; That has a wondrous, mighty melody. The boatman in the small ship seizes it with wild woe; He does not look at the rock reefs, He only looks up into the heights. I think the waves devour boatman and barge at the end; And that has done with her singing The Lore-Ley.
Sleeps a song in all things, Which dream on and on, And the world begins to sing, If you meet only the magic word.
Eyes, my dear little windows, Give me a pleasant glow for so long, let me kindly enter picture after picture: One day you will be darkened! Once the weary eyelids fall, if you extinguish them, then the soul will rest; groping, it will strip off its hiking shoes, it will also lie down in its dark chest. It will see two little sparks still glowing, How two little stars can be seen within, Until they waver and then also pass away, As of a butterfly's wings. But still I wander in the evening field, Only joined to the sinking star; Drink, O eyes, what holds the eyelashes, Of the golden abundance of the world!
Roofers fall and fall in two, And on the coasts? you read? the tide rises. The storm is there, the wild seas hop ashore to crush thick dams. Most people have a cold. The railways fall from the bridges.
A hair so audacious in spite of the Berenice speaks A mouth / that holds roses and pearls A tongue / such a giff before a thousand hearts carries two breasts / where ruby breaks through alabaster A neck / the swan-snow far back stabs Zwey cheeks / where the splendour of flora moves A glance / that leads lightning and puts men down Zwey arms / whose strength is open to shine A heart / from which nothing but my ruin quilts A word / so heavenly is / and can damn me Zwey hands / whose grip captivated me And by a sweet poisons the soul itself envelops A dainty / as it seems / in paradise has deprived me of my wit and my cheekiness.
It is a strong castle, Has good weights and weapons! With Prussian fortresses, however, I do not like to create anything. We arrived there in the evening time. The planks of the Zugbrück moaned So eerily as we rolled over; The dark ditches yawned. The high bastions looked at me, So menacing and exasperated; The great gate went up rattling, Ward rattling closed again. Ah! My soul was grieved, As the soul of Odysseus, When he heard that Polyphem pushed the boulder in front of the cave. A corporal came to the chariot And frug us: as we were called? I am called No one, am an eye doctor, And stab the star the giant. In the tavern I felt even worse, The food would not taste to me. I went to sleep immediately, but I did not sleep
With a roof and its shadow, the stock of colorful horses turns for a little while, all from the country that hesitates for a long time before it goes down. Although some are tensed to wagons, but all have courage in their faces; an evil red lion walks with them and every now and then a white elephant. Even a deer is there, just like in the forest, only that he carries a saddle and over it a little blue girl strapped on. And on the lion rides white a boy and holds himself with the little hot hand because the lion shows teeth and tongue. And now and then a white elephant. And on the horses they pass by, even girls, bright, almost outgrown this horse jump; in the middle of the swing they look up, somewhere, over - And now and then a white elephant. And that goes and hurries, that it ends, and circles and turns and has no goal
The masts rise up against the grey rampart like a burnt forest into the early red, As black as slag. Where the water is dead To store, which is rotten and decaying. Dull sounds the sound, then the flood returns along the quay. The city night flush floats like a white skin in the stream and rubs itself against the steamer that rests in the dock. Dust, fruit, paper, in a thick layer, So the droppings drift out of its tubes completely. A white dance dress comes, in fat splendour A naked neck and lead white a face. The corpse rolls out completely. It blows out The dress like a white ship in the wind. The dead eyes stare large and blind To the sky, which stands full of pink clouds. The purple water trembles from a small wave. - The water rat track, which manages The white
In the evening, when we walk on dark paths, our pale figures appear before us. When we are thirsty, we drink the white waters of the pond, The sweetness of our sad childhood. Dead we rest under the elderberry bushes, Look at the grey seagulls. Spring clouds rise over the dark city, Which of the monks more noble times is silent. As I took your narrow hands, you softly opened the round eyes, This is a long time ago. But when dark noises afflict the soul, you appear white in the friend of the autumnal landscape.
A fat boy plays with a pond. The wind has caught itself in a tree. The sky looks dim and pale, as if he had run out of make-up. Bent down on long crutches and chatting, two lame people crawl in the field. A blond poet might go mad. A little horse stumbles over a lady. A fat man sticks to a window. A young man wants to visit a soft woman. A grey clown puts on his boots. A pram screams and dogs curse.
In the evening the autumnal forests sound of deadly weapons, the golden plains and blue lakes, over which the sun rolls gloom; the night embraces dying warriors, the wild lamentation of their broken mouths. But still gathers in the willow ground Red clouds, in which dwells an angry god, The shed blood, moonless coolness; All the streets flow into black decay. Under golden branches of the night and stars Shadows of the sister sway through the silent grove, To greet the spirits of the heroes, the bleeding heads; And the dark flutes of autumn sound softly in the pipe. O proud mourning! you bronze altars, The hot flame of the spirit nourishes today a mighty pain, The unborn grandchildren.
When you go to work in the early morning, when you stand at the train station With your worries: there the city shows you millions of faces in the funnel of a human being: Two strange eyes, a short glance, the brow, pupils, the eyelids? What was that? Maybe your happiness in life... gone, blown away, never again. You walk your whole life on a thousand streets; you see on your corridor that forgot you. An eye beckons, the soul sounds; you have found, only for seconds... Two strange eyes, a short glance, the brow, pupils, the eyelids; What was that? no one turns back time... past, blown away, never again. You have to wander through cities on your corridor; you see a pulse for a long time the foreign others. It can be an enemy, it can be a friend, it can be your comrade in
The pale death with his cold hand will at last stroke your breasts with time / The sweet coral of your lips will fade; The shoulder-warm snow will become cold sand / The ugen sweet lightning / The strength of your hand / For whom such falls / They will give way in time / The hair / the itzund can of the gold shine / At last erase day and year as a common bond. The well-set foot / the lovely gestures / They will partly become dust / partly nothing and void / For no one sacrifices any more to the divinity of your splendour. This and even more than this must finally perish / Your heart can exist alone at all times / Because nature has made it of diamond.
Wonderful man, who fled the city! Every murmur of the tree, every sound of the brook, every twinkling pebble, preaching virtue and wisdom to him! Every shadowy shrub is to him a holy temple, where his God flows nearer to him; Every lawn an altar, Where he kneels before the sublime. His nightingale sounds slumber down upon him, His nightingale wakes him up again, When the lovely spring shines through the trees on his bed. Then he admires thee, God, in the morning corridor, In the rising splendour of thy messenger, The glorious sun, Thou in the worm, and in the bud branch. Restes in the blowing grass, when the coolness pours, Or streams the spring over the flowers; Drink the breath of the blossom
My heart beat, swiftly on horseback! It was done almost as thought; The evening was already rocking the earth And on the mountains hung the night Already stood in the mist-dress the oak A giant piled up, Where darkness saw out of the bushes With a hundred black eyes. The moon from a hill of clouds Saw miserably out of the fragrance; The winds swung softly wings whirled eerily around my ear The night created a thousand monsters Yet fresh and joyful was my courage In my veins what fire! In my hearts what glow! I saw you, and the mild joy flowed from the sweet look at me; Whole was my heart at your side And every breath for you. A pink spring weather surrounded the lovely face, And tenderness for me - you gods! I hope I do not deserve it! But, already with the morning sun,
Spring shall delight and enchant me with sweet looks, summer shall entertain me with fruit and myrtle kingdom, gird me joyfully. Autumn, thou shalt teach me household, to be without, to covet, And thou shalt teach me winter to die, to perish, to inherit spring.
When the Ancient Holy Father With a serene hand From rolling clouds Blessing lightnings Over the earth I sow the last hem of his garment, Childish shivers Faithful in the breast. For with gods shall not any man measure himself. If he lifts himself upward And touches the stars with the crown of his head, Nowhere do the uncertain soles cling, And with him play clouds and winds. If he stands with firm, marrow-like bones On the well-founded Permanent Earth, Is he not sufficient to compare Himself only with the oak or the vine. What distinguishes gods from men? That many waves walk before them, An eternal stream: The wave lifts us, engulfs the wave, And we sink. A small ring limits our life, And many generations continually line them, To their existence Infinite chain.
Greater would thou also, but love compels all of us down, sorrow bends more mightily, Yet Our bow does not return in vain whence it comes. Up or down! reigns in holy night, Where the mute nature meditates on days to come, Does not a degree, nor a right, reign in the crooked orc? I have learned this. For never, like mortal masters, have ye heavenly ones, ye all-preservers, That I should know, guided Me with caution on the level path. Let man test all things, say the heavenly ones, That he, vigorously nourished, thank you for all things, And understand the freedom to set out wherever he will.
My often stormed ship, the fierce winds game, The naughty waves ball that almost separated the tide, That ran over cliff 'on cliff' and foam and sand, Arrives before time, the port that my soul wants. Often, when black night came upon us at noon, the fast lightning burned the sails! How often have I misjudged the wind and north and south! How damaged is the mast, rudder, sword and keel. Get out, you weary spirit! Get out! We are on land! What frightens you for the port? Now you get rid of all bonds And fear and bitter pain and severe pain. Ade, cursed world. You sea full of rough storms: Happiness to, my fatherland, which keeps constant rest in umbrellas And protection and peace, you eternal castle!
We have gone through adversity and joy hand in hand, From wandering we both now rest over the still land. All around the valleys are sloping, The air is already dark, Two larks only rise into the fragrance, dreaming. Step forward and let them buzz, Soon it is bedtime, That we do not get lost in this solitude. Oh further, quiet peace! So deep in the twilight, How are we weary of wandering? Is this perhaps death?
I went home and slept as if The angels had cradled me. One rests in German beds so soft, For these are feather beds. How often do I long for the sweetness of the patriotic feeling, When I lay on hard mattresses, In the sleepless night of the exile! One sleeps very well and dreams well in our feather beds. Here the German soul feels free of all the chains of the earth. She feels free and soars up to the highest heavenly spaces. O German soul, how proud is your flight in your nighttime dreams! The gods fade away, when you approach! You have on your paths many a little starlet out of all the chains of the earth. She feels free and soars up to the highest heavenly spaces. Oh German soul, how proud is your flight in your nighttime dreams! The gods fade away, when you approach! You have
Two sails illuminating The deep blue bay! Two sails swelling To a calm escape! As one arches and moves in the winds, the sensation of the other is aroused. Desires one to hurry, The other goes quickly, Desires one to rest, His companion also rests.
Your soul, which loves mine, is forfeited with her in the carpet Tibet. Ray after ray, colors in love, stars that courted each other for heavenly length. Our feet rest on the preciousness, thousands upon thousands. Sweet son of a llama on a musk plant throne, How long has your mouth kissed mine, And Wang's cheek already colorful times?
Lost weapons, wheels without spokes, And overturned the iron carriages. From many puddles the smoke of the blood steams, Which black and red cover the brown dirt road. And whitish swells the belly of the dead horses, Which stretch their legs into the morning. In the cool wind still freezes the whimper of the dying, As in the east gates A pale shine appears, a green gleam, The thin band of the fleeting aura
The Potsdamer Platz in eternal roar Glaciers all echoing avalanches The street tracts: Trams on iron rails, automobiles and human waste. People run across the asphalt, ants busily, like lizards nimble. Forehead and hands, blinking with thoughts, swimming like sunlight through dark forest. Night rain envelops the square in a cave, Where bats, white, flap their wings And purple jellyfish lie - colorful oils; The multiply, cut by the carriages. - Splashes Berlin, the day glittering nest, From the smoke of the night like pus of a plague.
At noon the ravens hurry over the black corner with a hard cry. Their shadow wanders past the hind, And sometimes one sees them grumpily resting. Oh, how they disturb the brown silence, In which a field raptures itself, Like a woman who touches heavy foreboding, And sometimes one can hear them groaning Around a carcass that they smell somewhere, And suddenly they direct the flight to the north And disappear like a corpse In the air that trembles with lust.
A strong wind leapt up. Open the bleeding gates of the iron sky. Strike the towers. Sounding loud and supple over the iron plain of the city. The morning sun sooty. Trains thunder on dams. Golden angel ploughs plough through clouds. Strong wind over the pale city. Steamers and cranes awaken at the filthy flowing stream. Annoyingly the bells knock at the weathered cathedral. You see many women and girls going to work. In the pale light. Wild from the night. Their skirts weave. Limbs created for love. Towards the machine and grumpy toil. Look into the tender light. In the trees tender green. Listen! The sparrows shrine. And outside in wilder fields larks sing.
When we march - step by step - We listen: our heart beats with us. My heart and your heart, comrade. In the same beat: Soldier! Soldier! So row by row - step by step - columns stamp the same step. We suspect it big, we pray it already: This is the pulse of the nation. When we march - step by step - In our blood draw with The fathers all, the grandchildren already: In the eternal pulse of the nation. Soldier! Soldier! So step by step. Hear Germany, how it fought and suffered! Hear Germany, how it draws eternally, The best blood, into the heroic song!
The sea is our life / The waves of love are the fear / In which we float / The sails / Where the desiring wind blows / Is the thought cloth. Desire / Hope are the anchors. The magnet is beauty. Our whirlpool are bathsebs. The wine and abundance are the packs. The star / after which one steers the stiff sails / Is a dazed mouth. The port / where one thinks / Is a beautiful woman. The shores are the breasts. The approach is a kiss. The purpose / sweet lusts. But here is clouded / by blind burning smoke The sun of reason / so follows the shipwreck also The sinking of the soul / and the spoilage of the body: For beyde kills us the lust of a white.
Heart, my heart, what is that to give? What is so distressing to you? What a strange new life! I do not recognize you any more. Gone is all that you loved, Gone is the way why you grieved, Gone is your diligence and your rest? Oh, how did you come to it! Does the flower of youth, This lovely figure, This gaze full of faithfulness and goodness bind you with infinite force? Will I quickly withdraw from it, empower myself, escape it, Feel me in the moment, Oh, my way back to it. And by this magic thread, Which cannot be torn, the dear loose girl holds Me so against her will; must now live in her magic circles in her own way. The change, oh, how great! Love! Let me go!
<unk> Take the world! <unk> called Zeus from his heights to the people. <unk> Take it, it shall be yours! I give it to you as an inheritance and as a fief - but divide yourselves brotherly into it! <unk> There hastens' what has hands to arrange itself, It was busy young and old. <unk> The farmer reached for the fruits of the field, The junkie birdied through the forest. The merchant takes what his stores hold, The abbot chooses the noble Firnewein, The king closes the bridges and the streets And said: <unk> The tithe tithe is mine. <unk> Very late, after the division has long happened, the poet, he came from far away - Oh! there was nothing left to see everywhere, And everything had its master! <unk> Woe to me! So shall I alone be forgotten, I, your faithful son? <unk> So he let <unk>
There was a girl standing by the window, As it was morning outside, her long hair was combed, her eyes were clear. Singing birds of all kinds, sunshine was playing in front of the house, outside over the beautiful garden clouds were flying far out. And she stretched out into the morning, as if she were still sleepy, Oh, she was so full of sorrow, braiding her hair and singing,? Like a bird bright and pure, draw outside muntre love, curl out to the sunshine, Oh, who stayed at home?!?
I wander through the silent night, Then the moon creeps so secretly gently out of the dark cloud cover, And back and forth in the valley awakens the nightingale, Then again everything gray and silent. O wonderful night song: From far away in the land of the rivers walk, Leis shudders in the dark trees - Confuse the thoughts to me, My crazy singing here is like a call only from dreams.
It was as if heaven had silently kissed the earth, That it must now dream of it in the glimmer of blossom. "The air passed through the fields, The ears of corn gently billowed, The forests rustled softly, So starry was the night. And my soul spread out its wings far and wide, flew through the still lands, As if it were flying home.
What are we human beings? A dwelling house of fierce pain. A ball of false happiness, a false light of this time, A scene of bitter anguish, occupied with sharp sorrow. A soon melted snow and burnt candles. This life flees from it like gossip and jokes. Those who have long since been written in the Book of the Dead of great mortality, are out of our minds and hearts. As a vain dream easily falls out of the eight, And as a stream that no power can stop, so must our Nam, praise, honor and glory disappear. What catches our breath must escape with the air; What will come after us will follow us into the grave. What do I say? We pass away like smoke from strong winds.
In the gloomy eye no tear You sit at the loom and gnash your teeth: Germany, we weave your shroud, We weave into it the threefold curse - We weave, we weave! A curse to the God, to whom we prayed In winter coldness and famine; We have hoped in vain and waited, He has apprehended us and tied us up and fooled us - We weave, we weave! A curse to the King, the King of the rich, Whom our misery could not soften, Who extorted the last penny from us And let us be shot like dogs - We weave, we weave! A curse to the false fatherland, We only prosper shame and shame, Where every flower kindled early, Where rot and rot refreshes the worm - We weave
It drifts past me in the sea of the city Soon one, now one, one after the other. A glance in the eye, and already past. The organ-turner turns his song. It drips past me into the sea of nothingness Soon the one, now the other, one after the other. A glance at his coffin, already past. The organ-turner turns his song. A funeral procession floats in the sea of the city, cross-way the people, one after the other. A glance at my coffin, already past. The organ-turner turns his song.
How shall I hold my soul, lest it touch yours? How shall I lift it above you to other things? Oh, I would like to place it in the darkness with something lost, in a strange quiet place, which does not resonate when your depths vibrate; but everything that touches us, you and me, gathers us together like a bow drawing a voice from two strings. On which instrument are we curious? And which player has us in his hand? O sweet song.
My daily work is: to sit kneeling in the narrow boiler pipe with a small glow? to sweat on rivets in the heat? to sooty eyes and hair and ears? As if I were just a small percussion motor, So I let my arms sprinkle? The glowing air stings as with poisonous spikes; Again and again the sweat breaks out... O man! Where are you? Like a beetle trapped in amber you crouch in the iron, iron covers you in a closing tangle. In the eye the soul races, poor and insane. Homesickness howls insanely, homesickness cries sweet sages for earth, man and light. So shout, man in iron!
Two steamers came with bands. They cut the chimney at the arch of the bridge. Smoke, soot, stench lay on the filthy waves of the tanneries with the brown skins. In all the bridges, under which we passed the Zille, the signals sounded as if growing in drums in the silence. We let go and drifted slowly in the canal An Gardens. In the idyll Sahn we the giant chimney Night fanale.
The sky flows in stone channels; For all the streets are cut out into channels, full of the sky-blue; And domes are like buoys, vents like piles In the water. Black food vapours smoulder And are to be looked at like aquatic plants. The lives, which accumulate at the very bottom, begin to speak softly of the sky, Mixed, unraveled to blue melodies. Like a water sediment and sand, it stirs the will and mind of the water In the dunes, Coming, Walking, Gliding, Drawing. Men are like coarse colored sand In the linden play of the great wave hand.
In the courtyard, bewitched by milky twilight, the soft sick glide through autumn tanned. Their waxy-round gaze reflects golden times, filled with reverie and tranquillity and wine. Their infirmity is ghostly enclosed. The stars spread white sadness. In the grey, filled with deception and ringing, behold how the terrible scatter in confusion. Formless mockingfigures scurry, cower and flutter on black-crossed paths. Oh! mournful shadows on the walls. The others flee through dark arcades; And at night they tumble out of red showers of the starry wind, like raging maenads.
The darkness rustles like a garment, The trees stagger at the edge of the sky. Save yourself in the heart of the night, Dig quickly into the darkness, As in honeycombs. Make yourself small, Get out of your bed. Something wants to cross the bridges, He rattles with hooves crooked, The stars frightened so white. And the moon waddles around above like an old man With the humped back.
A white bird is the big sky. A city crouches hard under it. The houses are half-dead old people. A thin mould of dross gazes grumpily. And winds, skinny dogs, run faintly. At sharp corners their skins squeak. In a street a lunatic moans: You, oh, you? When I finally find you, oh beloved... A crowd around him marvels and grins with derision. Three little people play blind cow? On everything the grey powder hands lay The afternoon, a gently weeping god.
In the black mirror of the canals the colorful chain of lights of the factories twitches. The low streets are impregnated with smoke until suffocation, which a gust of wind crouches down. A group of people, tempered by cheerfulness, staggers silently into the poor cabins; while in the smoky canteens the great youth makes a fluffy noise. Once again, the wire rope pulley throws the cinder rubble down into the flat terrain, inside the sulfur swamp extinguishes. Far away, however, the steam hisses, the rolling mill's two-splitted fire rages? and the wind is waiting to tear the sky to pieces.
From all corners of the earth, fear shrieks, life whips, death gaspes, the heavens shreds. Blind woman slaughters wildly for horror.
Like the holes of a sieve, windows stand close to each other, houses huddle together so tightly that the streets are swollen grey like strangled people. Sitting tightly together in the trams, the two facades are people, their close looks bathe in each other, questioned without shyness. Our walls are as thin as skin, so that everyone participates when I cry. Our whispers, thoughts... become growls... - And as if still in a thickly locked cave, completely untouched and unseen, everyone stands far away and feels: alone
In the shadow of spring I found you; I bound you with ribbons of roses: she did not feel it, and slumbered. I looked at you; my life hung with this glance on your life: I felt it well, and did not know it. But I listened to her speechless, And rustled with the ribbons of roses: Then she awoke from slumber. She looked at me; her life hung with this glance on my life, And around us there was Elysium.
How gloriously does nature shine to Me! How shines the sun! How laughs the corridor! Blossoms pierce from every branch And a thousand voices From the bush And joy and bliss From every breast. O earth, O sun, O happiness, O lust, O love, O love, As golden beautiful as morning clouds On that hill, You gloriously bless The fresh field - In the vapour of blossoms The full world! O girl, girl, How I love you! How blinking your eye, How you love me! So the lark loves song and air, And dawn flowers The scent of heaven, How I love you With warm blood, Who give me youth And joy and courage To new songs and dances. Be eternally happy, As you love me.
To the snow, to the rain, to the wind, in the vapour of the clefts, through the scents of mist, always to! Always to! Without rest and rest! I would rather fight through suffering, that is, endure so many joys of life. All the inclination from the heart to the heart, oh, how own does that create pain! How - shall I flee? Walk into the woods? All in vain! Crown of life, happiness without rest, love, are you!
You who are from heaven, who satisfy all joy and pain, who fill Him who is doubly miserable, doubly with refreshment; Oh, I am tired of driving! What is the point of all the torment and lust? Sweet peace, come, oh come into my breast!
I think of you when the sun shines on me from the sea; I think of you when the moon's flicker paints itself in springs. I see you when the dust rises on the far way; In the deep night when the walker trembles on the narrow walkway. I hear you when the wave rises there with a muffled murmur. In the quiet grove I often go to listen, When everything is silent. I am with you; however far you are, you are close to me! The sun sinks, soon the stars shine on me. Oh, would you be there!
In front of his garden of lions, To await the fighting game, Sat King Francis, And around him the great ones of the crown, And all around on high balconies The ladies in beautiful garlands. And as he beckons with his finger, On opens the wide kennel, And into it with deliberate step A lion steps, And looks around silently, With a long yawn, And shakes his manes, And stretches out his limbs, And lays down. And the king beckons again, Then a second gate opens nimbly, Out of it runs with a wild leap A tiger, As he sees the lion, He roars loudly, Strikes with his tail A terrible frost, And sticks out his tongue, And in a circle shyly he walks around the Leu Grimly purring; Then he stretches out murmurmuring to the side. And the king king
When the sun has gone, darkness comes, sunset has golden cheeks, and the night has mourning. Since love has gone, I am now a carrot child, and the red joyful cheeks are dark and lost. Darkness must deeply conceal all woe, all lust; but the moon and stars show what dwells in my breast. If the lips conceal from you the silent glow of my heart, gaze and tears must show how love never rests.
A kiss has breathed life into me, the deepest languishing of my bosom, Come, darkness! to envelop me in sorrow, That new bliss sucks my lips. Such life was immersed in dreams, Therefore I live to contemplate dreams eternally, Can despise the splendour of all other joys, Because only the night breathes so sweet balm. Day is sparse with sweet delights, It pains me the vain pangs of its light, And devour me the glow of its sun. Therefore, hide thyself from the splendour of errant suns! Hold thyself in the night, it quenches thy desires, And heals the pain, like Lethe cool waters.
s comfort and faithful breast, the sweet sight of the woman? Does no one want to be merry with me? There is now so quiet in the world, clouds draw lonely over the field, And field and tree discuss each other? O son of man, what shudders thee? No matter how far the false world may be, there remains only one faithful to me, Who weeps with me, Who watches with me, If only I thought of him correctly. Fresh up then, dear nightingale, Thou waterfall with a bright sound! Let us praise God together, Until the bright morning shines!
It is already late, it is already getting cold, What is riding? are you alone through the forest? The forest is long, you are alone, you beautiful bride! I am bringing you home!? Great is the deceit and cunning of the men, My heart is broken with pain, Well the horn of the forest is wandering here and there, O flee! You do not know who I am.? So richly decorated is horse and woman, So beautiful is the young body, Now I know you? God help me! You are the witch Lorelei.? You know me well? from high stone Look silently my castle deep into the Rhine. It is already late, it is already getting cold, never come out of this forest!?
My heart, my heart is sad, But May gleams merrily; I stand, leaning against the linden tree, High on the old bastion. Down there flows the blue moat in quiet rest; A boy rides in a barge, And fishes and whistles to it. Beyond rise kindly, In tiny, colorful form, Pleasure houses, and gardens, and people, And oxen, and meadows, and forest. The maidens pale laundry, And jump about in the grass; The mill wheel dusts diamonds, I hear its distant humming. At the old grey tower A little sign stands; A red-skinned lad There goes up and down. He plays with his shotgun, Which sparkles in the sunshine, He presents and shoulders - I want, he shoots me dead.
The night rose serenely to the land, leaning dreaming against the mountain wall, Her eye now sees the golden scales of time resting still in the same bowls; And the springs rustle boldly, They sing to the mother, the night, in the ear Of the day, Of the day that has been today. The ancient lullaby, She does not pay attention, She is weary of it; You sound the blue of the sky sweeter still, The yoke of the fleeing hours evaporated. But always the springs keep the word, The waters still sing away in their sleep Of the day, Of the day that has been today.
Heart, my heart, why so joyful, so full of restlessness and scattered, As if the beautiful season of spring were already coming over the mountains? Because a dear maiden is again affectionately clinging to your heart, You look up and down merrily, Earth and Heaven are refreshing you. And I have the windows open, New draw into the world Old trepidation, old hope! Spring, spring shall it be! Quiet I can no longer remain here, Through the breast a singing errs, But it is too light for me to write, And I am so joyfully confused. So I wander through the alleys, People go here and there, Do not know what I do and leave, Only that I am so happy.
In his garden he walks alone; in all the trees he burrows again and again the single name, heavy with thought, And in the name his songs lament. Softly the sky blues, mild roses weave The summer time through meagre masses of leaves. He does not see them; the time in which he lives is old, withered, long since abandoned by all.
The Romans were tyrant eaters. We are not Romans, we smoke tobacco. Every people has its taste, Every people has its greatness; In Swabia one cooks the best dumplings. We are Teutons, cosy and well-behaved, We sleep healthy plant sleep, And when we awake, we thirst, But not for the blood of our princes. We are as faithful as oak, Even lime wood, of which we are proud; In the land of oaks and lime trees there will never be a Brutus. And if a Brutus were among us, He would never find Caesar, In vain would he seek Caesar; We have good gingerbread. We have thirty-six lords (Is not too much!), and a star everyone carries protectively on his heart, And he need not fear the idols of the March. We call them
On the gray beach, on the gray sea, And on the side lies the city; The mist weighs heavily on the roofs, And through the silence the sea roars monotonously around the city. No forest rustles, it beats in May No bird ceaselessly; The wandering goose with a hard cry Only flies by in autumn night, On the beach the grass blows. But my whole heart clings to you, you gray city by the sea; The youth magic for and for rests smiling upon you, upon you, you gray city by the sea.
I cry day and night; I sit in a thousand pains; I fear a thousand more; the strength in my heart disappears, the spirit faints away; my hands sink; my cheeks become pale, the cheerful eyes ornament passes away like the light of candles already burnt; my soul is stormed, like the sea in March. What is this life, what are we, I and you? What do we imagine, what do we desire to have? Now we are high and great, and tomorrow we are buried; now flowers, tomorrow excrement. We are a wind, a foam, a mist and a brook, a frost, a dew, a shadow; now what and tomorrow nothing; and what are our deeds as a dream mixed with bitter fear.
John Maynard! "Who is John Maynard?" "John Maynard was our helmsman, he endured until he won the shore, he saved us, he carries the crown," he died for us, our love his reward. John Maynard. "The" swallow "flies over Lake Erie, spray foams around the bow like flakes of snow; from Detroit it flies to Buffalo - but the hearts are free and happy, and the passengers with children and women in the twilight already look at the shore, and chatting to John Maynard approaches everything:" How far still, helmsman? "He looks forward and looks into the round:" Thirty minutes more... Halve Stund. "All hearts are glad, all hearts are free - there sounds from the ship room like scream," Fire! "it was what sounded there, a smoke from cabin and hatch penetrated, a smoke
The crows shriek and fly to the city: Soon it will be snowing, - Blessed is he who still has a home! Now you stand rigid, look backwards, oh! how long ago! What are you a fool who fled into the world before winter? The world - a gateway to a thousand deserts, silent and cold! Whoever lost what you lost, does not stop anywhere. Now you stand pale, cursed to winter wandering, like the smoke who is always looking for cold skies. Fly, bird, snare your song in the sound of a desert bird! - Hide, you fool, your bleeding heart in ice and mockery! The crows shriek and fly to the city: Soon it will be snowing, - Woe to him who has no home!
Do not give way to happiness, do not give way to envy, do not take pleasure in yourself, and do not take heed of sorrow, for happiness, place and time have conspired against you. Whatever grieves you and refreshes you, consider all things chosen; accept your doom. Do all things without repentance. Do what must be done, and before you are commanded. Whatever you can still hope, that is still born. What complains, what is praised? His misfortune and his happiness is each one himself. Look at all things: all these things are in you. Leave your vain delusion, and before you go forth, go back into yourself. To him who is his master and can control himself, to him is the wide world and all things subject.
Dô Friderich ûz Osterrîch as sô gewarp, that he froze at the sêle genas and in the lîp, dô fuort he mînen krenechen tret into the earth, Dô gienc i slîchent as a path, swar i gie, daz houbet i hang nider unz ûf mîniu kneel, nû riht i ez ûf nâch become fuller: i am wol ze fiure komen, me hât daz rîche and ouch diu krône per se, wol ûf, swer dance welle nâch der gîgen! me is mîner swære buoz, êrste wil i just want to sit down înen fuoz and sit down in a hôhôte.
Do you see the city resting over there, whispering nestling in the garment of the night? The moon of the silver silk flood pours down on it in magical splendour. The balmy night wind blows her breath, so ghostly, extinguishingly quiet sound: she weeps in a dream, she breathes deeply and heavily, she lisps, enigmatically, seductively bang... The dark city, she sleeps in my heart With splendour and glow, with agonizingly colorful splendor: But flattering floats around you her reflection, subdued to whisper, gliding through the night.
The wandering wind on the paths was filled with sweet sound, The dawning trickling rain was moist with desire, The flowing rushing water intoxicated the voices of dreams, the pale and pale blurred in the floating mist, The wind in the blowing pastures, By the water the wandering wind intoxicated the longing sufferings that are in the twilight, The way in the twilight pangs, It led to no destination, Yet it was good to walk In the rain that fell trickling.
Man, the play of time, plays, because he lives here in the scene of this world; he sits, but not firm; he rises, and he falls, he seeks the palaces, and he seeks a bad roof; he rules, and he weaves; what was yesterday is gone; what raises happiness, will perish tomorrow; the previously green branches are now withered and dead; we poor are only guests, whether a sharp sword of delicate silk hovers over them. We are equal in flesh, but not of the same state: he wears a purple robe, and he digs in the sand, until death makes us like him after bereft of ornaments. Play this serious game, because time still suffers, and learn that when one separates from the banquet of life, crown, wisdom, strength, and good be an empty splendour!
We know nothing of this going out that does not share with us. We have no reason to show admiration and love or hatred to death, which a masked mouth of tragic lamentation wondrously disfigures. Still, the world is full of roles that we play. As long as we care whether we like it or not, death also plays, although it does not like it. Yet, as you went, a strip of reality broke into this stage through that gap through which you went: green real green, real sunshine, real forest. We play on. Bang and hard-learned reciting and repeating gestures from time to time; but your being removed from us, removed from our piece, can sometimes come over us as a knowledge of that reality descends, so that we play life for a while carried away, not thinking of applause.
Under Turkish lime trees that bloom, on the edges of lawns, in stands quietly swayed by their homesickness, the macaws breathe and know of their lands that, even if they do not look, do not change. Strangers in the busy green like a parade, they adorn themselves and feel too sorry for themselves, and with the precious beaks of jasper and jade they chew grey, throw it away, find it bland. Below, the dusty pigeons steal what they do not like, while above, the sneering birds bow between the two almost empty wasted troughs. But then they weigh again and sleep and eyes, play with dark tongues that like to lie, scattered on the shackles. Waiting for witnesses.
The eternal multitude now wants to close its light; Diana stands pale; the dawn laughs at the grey sky, the gentle wind awakens; and excites the people of the feathers to greet the new day. The life of this world is already hastening to kiss the world, And sticks its head up; one sees the splendour of the rays Now twinkling on the sea. Oh thrice supreme power! Enlighten him who now bows down before your feet! Drive away the thick night that surrounds my soul, The darkness of sorrow that grieves heart and spirit! Refresh my mind and strengthen my confidence! Grant that I may this day alone feed in your service; and when my end and that day break, That I may behold you, my sun! my light forever!
In the dusk he stands tall and unrecognized, And the moon he crushes in the black hand. In the evening noise of the cities it falls far, frost and shadow of a strange darkness, And the markets round vortex falters to ice. It becomes still. They look around. And no one knows. In the alleys it grasps their shoulder lightly. A question. No answer. A face pales. In the distance a ringing whimperes thin And the beards tremble around their pointed chin. On the mountains he starts to dance And he cries: You warriors all, up and on. And it resounds when the black head he swivels, Drum of a thousand skulls loud chain hangs. Like a tower he steps out of the last embers, Where the day flees, the streams are already full of blood. Countless the corpses are stretched
s beards stand around her chin The clouds black of smoke and coal soot. Her long shadow sways in the sea of houses, And extinguishes rows of lights of the streets. He crawls like mist on the pavement heavy, And gropes slowly forward house by house. One foot placed in a place, The other kneels on a tower, Raising them up, where black the rain falls, Panpipes blowing into the storm of clouds. Around her feet circles the Ritornell of the sea of cities with sad music, A great song of death. Soon dull, soon garish the sound changes, which rose into the darkness. They wander by the stream, which is black and wide Like a reptile, the back yellow speckled From the lanterns, into the darkness Swallows mournfully, the black covers the sky. They lean heavily on a bridge wall,
Silence dwells in blue rooms A long afternoon. Death sounds of metal; And a white animal breaks down. Brown maiden Rough songs Are blown away in the fall of leaves. Forehead of God Colors dreams, Feels of madness gentle wings. Shadows turn on the hill Black fringed by decay. Twilight full of rest and wine; Sad guitars trickle down. And to the mild lamp inside you return as in a dream.
It is a light which the wind has extinguished. It is a heather jug which in the afternoon a drunkard leaves. It is a vineyard, burnt and black with holes full of spiders. It is a room which they have whitewashed with milk. The madman has died. It is an island of the South Sea to receive the sun god. One touches the drums. The men perform martial dances. The women cradle the hips in creepers and fire flowers, When the sea sings. O our lost paradise. The nymphs have left the golden forests. One buries the stranger. Then a flickering rain lifts up. The son of the Pan appears in the form of an earthworker, Who sleeps the noon on the glowing asphalt. There are little girls in a courtyard full of heartbreaking poverty. They are rooms filled with chords
The field glows white and cold. The sky is lonely and monstrous. Jackdaws circle over the pond And hunters descend from the forest. A silence dwells in black tops. A light of fire scurries from the huts. Sometimes a sleigh rings far away And slowly the grey moon rises. A game bleeds gently on the rain And ravens splash in bloody pours. The reed trembles yellow and shot up. Frost, smoke, a step in the empty grove.
I let my face fall on stars, which limp apart as if struck. The forests wander moonward, black jellyfish, into the blue sea, from which my gaze beckons. My ego is gone. It makes the starry journey. It is not I from which the clothes shine. The days die away, the white old men. Selfless nerves are full of fear and cry.
Through the bushes winding stars eyes dive blaken sink whispers rippling blossoms hear scents splash showers rush winds rapid bounce swell cloths tear traps frightens into deep night.
The stones enemy windows grins betrayal branches choke mountains shrubs leaf rustling death.
Under the lime trees On the heath, there was something between our two beds. There, ir vinden Schône mugt both broken flowers and grass, in front of the forest in a valley. Tandaradei, schône sanc diu nahtegal. I came to Zuo der Ouwe: Dô was mîn friedel komen ê Dá I was received, hêre frouwe daz I am saelic iemer mê. Did he kiss me? Wol tûsentstunt: Tandaradei, see how rôt me is the unt. Do het he made Alsô rîche Of flowers a bed stat. The landlord still laughed Innecliche, kumt iemen an daz same pfat. Bî den rôsen er wol mac Tandaradei, remember wâ mirz houbet lac.
s dizziness hesitates before the forehead of your head. Fresh the bumpy cane, roots, stones the trott Fast into life! Now again the breathing step Tough up the mountain. On then, not sluggish then! Striving and hoping. Far, high, glorious the view all around into life; From the birth to the birth, Over the eternal spirit of eternal life foreboding. Sideways of the canopy Shade attracts you And the refreshing look On the threshold of the maiden there. Refresh yourself!? Me also, maiden, this foaming drunkenness And the friendly look of health! From then, fresher down! Behold, the sun sinks! Eh it sinks, before old men in the moor grasp me the scent of mist, disengaged jaws clatter And the loosening bone?.
Once upon a time there was a king in Thule, faithful to the grave, to Whom, dying, his lover gave him a golden cup. He cared nothing about it, He emptied him of every feast; His eyes passed over him, as often as he drank from it. And when he came to die, he counted his city in the kingdom, Give it all to his heirs, The cup not at the same time. He sat at the royal banquet, The knights around him, In the high hall of his fathers There on the castle by the sea. There stood the old draught, the last glow of life, And threw the holy cup down into the flood. He saw him fall, drink, and sink deep into the sea. His eyes would sink, never drink a drop more.
Fill again the bush and the valley Still with mist, at last loosen My soul completely; Widest over my field Relieving your gaze, As the eye of my friend mild About my fate. Every echo my heart feels joyful and dull time, Change between joy? and pain In the loneliness. Flow, flow, dear river! Never will I be glad; So rustled joking and kiss And faithfulness so. I once possessed it, What is so delicious! That one never forgets it to his torment! Rush, river, along the valley, Without rest and rest, rustle, whisper melodies to my song! If in the winter night you swell over raging, Or around the spring language of young buds. Blessed is he who closes himself from the world without hatred, holds a friend by the bosom And enjoys
Who rides so late through night and wind? It is the father with his child; He has the boy well in his arms, He holds him securely, He keeps him warm. My son, why do you hide so anxiously your face? - Do you see father, you do not see the king of the alder? The king of the alder with crown and tail? - My son, it is a fog strip. - "You dear child, come, walk with me! I play with you with such beautiful games; Many colourful flowers are on the beach, My mother has many golden robes." My father, my father, and do you not hear what the king of the alder promises me quietly? - Be quiet, remain calm, my child; in dry leaves the wind whispers. - "Will, fine boy, you go with me? My daughters shall wait for you beautifully; My daughters shall lead the night
And now his spirits shall also live according to my will. I notice his words and works and the custom, And with strength of spirit I do miracles also. Walk! Walk some distance, That, for the purpose, water flows And with rich, full swallow To the bath pour out. And now come, you old broom! Take the bad lumpen shells; Have long been a servant: Now fulfill my will! Stand on two legs, Above be a head, hurry now, and go with the water pot! Walk some distance, That, for the purpose, water flows And with rich, full swallow To the bath pour out. Look, he runs down to the shore, Truly! is already at the river, And with lightning speed he is here again with me! Walk! Walk some distance, That, for the purpose, water flows And with rich, full swallow!
When the sunset kisses the groves with the farewell flames, When in the glorious morning light the sun greets larks, Oh then I throw songs of exultation into the praise of nature, Echo speaks the tones again, Everything only praises the Eternal. With the springs goes my greetings, And the deaf heart in me must awaken to the God Who shields us for and for. Waves of the sea resound loudly, In the woods dwells many a sound; And we should not sing, Since joy everywhere?
With yellow pears, And full of wild roses, The land into the lake, You sweet swans, And drunken with kisses, You dip your head into the holy water. Woe to me, where, when it is winter, do I take the flowers, And where the sunshine, And the shade of the earth? The walls stand speechless and cold, In the wind the flags clank.
I hear a sickle rustle, well rustle through the grain, I hear a maiden lament, She would have lost her love. Let rustle, dear, let rustle, I do not care how it goes, I would change my love In violets and in clover. You have recruited a maiden In violets and in clover, So I stand here alone, Do my heart hurt. I hear a little deer rustle Well rustle through the forest, I hear my love complain, Love rustle so soon. Let rustle, love, let rustle, I do not know how I will be, The brooks always rustle, And none gets lost.
Insulation wants to spread its wings, the trees stir eerily, clouds move like heavy dreams - What does this grey mean? Do you love a roe deer before others, do not let it graze alone, hunters wander in the woods and blow, voices wander back and forth. Do you have a friend here, do not trust him at this hour, Friendly with your eyes and mouth, does he meditate war in treacherous peace. What passes down today tired, is reborn tomorrow. Some things remain lost in the night - beware, stay awake and lively!
Silence of the people loud lust: Rushes the earth as in dreams Wonderful with all the trees, What the heart barely aware, Ancient times, lime mourning, And there wander quietly showers weather-shining through the chest.
When I, deeply satisfied by your gaze, silently delight in your holy value, then I hear the gentle breaths of the angel who veils himself in you. And an astonished, an inquiring smile gushes upon my mouth, whether no dream deceives me, That now in you, eternally enough, My boldest desire, my only one, is fulfilled? From the depths then to the depths my mind tumbles, I hear melodiously from the Deity at night, The springs of fate rustle. Stunned, I turn my gaze upward, to heaven - there all the stars smile; I kneel to listen to their song of light.
t know where I am. Nightingales strike here in solitude, as if they wanted to say something about the old, beautiful time. The glimmers of the moon fly, as if I saw the castle lying beneath me in the valley, And yet it is so far from here! As if in the garden, full of roses white and red, My beloved had to wait for me, And yet is long dead.
Remove the crosses from the earth! Let them all become swords, God in heaven will forgive them. Let them, O let them be welded together! On the anvil lay the iron! Saviour shall be the iron. Your firs, your oaks - Have you observed the green question marks of German freedom? No, it shall not perish! But you merry resurrection Costs a journey to hell. Germans, believe your seers, Our days will be brazen, Our future will rattle in brass; Black death is our wages only, Our gold an evening gold only, Our red a bleeding heart! Remove the crosses from the earth! All shall become swords, God in heaven will forgive it. Hear our fire roar, And His holy iron rattle, Say he will bless it. Before freedom be no peace, Be not granted to the man a woman
Arise, awake, over the mountain and the river to meet the dawn, the last kiss to the faithful woman, And then to the faithful rapier! Until our hand bursts into ashes, Shall she not let go of the sword; We have loved long enough, And will at last hate! Love cannot help us, Love will not save; Hold on, O hatred, thy recent judgment, Break thou, O hatred, the chains! And where there are still tyrants, Let us grasp them boldly; We have loved long enough, And will at last hate! Whoever still has a heart, let it only stir in hatred; Everywhere is dry wood, To stir up our embers. Those who still remain of freedom, Sing through the streets of Germany: You have loved long enough, O learn to hate at last! Fight them without cease, The tyranny
Sing softly, softly, softly, sings a whispering lullaby; from the moon learns the wise man who moves so silently in the sky. Sing a song as sweetly gentle as the springs on the pebbles, as the bees buzz around the lime tree, murmur, whisper, trickle.
Do you not hear the springs go far between stone and flowers After the silent lakes of the forest, Where the marble pictures stand In the beautiful solitude? From the mountains gently descend, Awakening the ancient songs, Rises the wonderful night, And the grounds shine again, As dus often thought in a dream. Do you know the flower, sprouted In the moonlit ground? From the bud, half opened, Young limbs blossoming, White arms, red mouth, And the nightingales beat, And all around it begins to lament, Oh, from love dead sore, From sunken beautiful days? Come, o come to the silent ground!
