since feeling is first who pays any attention to the syntax of things will never wholly kiss you; wholly to be a fool while Spring is in the world
my blood approves and kisses are a better fate than wisdom lady i swear by all flowers. Don"t cry —the best gesture of my brain is less than your eyelids" flutter which says
we are for each other: then for life"s not a paragraph
How do I love thee? Let me count the ways. I love thee to the depth and breadth and height My soul can reach, when feeling out of sight For the ends of being and ideal grace. I love thee to the level of every day"s Most quiet need, by sun and candle-light. I love thee freely, as men strive for right. I love thee purely, as they turn from praise. I love thee with the passion put to use In my old griefs, and with my childhood"s faith. I love thee with a love I seemed to lose With my lost saints. I love thee with the breath, Smiles, tears, of all my life; and, if God choose, I shall but love thee better after death.
I wonder, by my troth, what thou and I Did, till we loved? Were we not weaned till then? But sucked on country pleasures, childishly? Or snorted we in the Seven Sleepers’ den? ’Twas so; but this, all pleasures fancies be. If ever any beauty I did see, Which I desired, and got, ’twas but a dream of thee.
And now good-morrow to our waking souls, Which watch not one another out of fear; For love, all love of other sights controls, And makes one little room an everywhere. Let sea-discoverers to new worlds have gone, Let maps to other, worlds on worlds have shown, Let us possess one world, each hath one, and is one.
My face in thine eye, thine in mine appears, And true plain hearts do in the faces rest; Where can we find two better hemispheres, Without sharp north, without declining west? Whatever dies, was not mixed equally; If our two loves be one, or, thou and I Love so alike, that none do slacken, none can die.
Happy the man, and happy he alone, He who can call today his own: He who, secure within, can say, Tomorrow do thy worst, for I have lived today. Be fair or foul or rain or shine The joys I have possessed, in spite of fate, are mine. Not Heaven itself upon the past has power, But what has been, has been, and I have had my hour.
Of Manners gentle , of Affections mild ; In Wit , a Man ; Simplicity , a Child : With native Humour temp"ring virtuous Rage , Form "d to delight at once and lash the age : Above Temptation , in a low Estate , And uncorrupted , ev"n among the Great : A safe Companion , and an easy Friend , Unblam "d thro ’ Life , lamented in thy End . These are Thy Honours ! not that here thy Bust Is mix "d with Heroes , or with Kings thy dust ; But that the Worthy and the Good shall say , Striking their pensive bosoms — Here lies GAY .
Music , when soft voices die , Vibrates in the memory — Odours , when sweet violets sicken , Live within the sense they quicken .
Rose leaves , when the rose is dead , Are heaped for the beloved "s bed ; And so thy thoughts , when thou art gone , Love itself shall slumber on .
The sun is warm , the sky is clear , The waves are dancing fast and bright , Blue isles and snowy mountains wear The purple noon "s transparent might , The breath of the moist earth is light , Around its unexpanded buds ; Like many a voice of one delight , The winds , the birds , the ocean floods , The City "s voice itself , is soft like Solitude "s .
I see the Deep "s untrampled floor With green and purple seaweeds strown ; I see the waves upon the shore , Like light dissolved in star-showers , thrown : I sit upon the sands alone ,— The lightning of the noontide ocean Is flashing round me , and a tone Arises from its measured motion , How sweet ! did any heart now share in my emotion .
Alas ! I have nor hope nor health , Nor peace within nor calm around , Nor that content surpassing wealth The sage in meditation found , And walked with inward glory crowned — Nor fame , nor power , nor love , nor leisure . Others I see whom these surround — Smiling they live , and call life pleasure ;— To me that cup has been dealt in another measure .
Yet now despair itself is mild , Even as the winds and waters are ; I could lie down like a tired child , And weep away the life of care Which I have borne and yet must bear , Till death like sleep might steal on me , And I might feel in the warm air My cheek grow cold , and hear the sea Breathe o"er my dying brain its last monotony .
Some might lament that I were cold , As I , when this sweet day is gone , Which my lost heart , too soon grown old , Insults with this untimely moan ; They might lament — for I am one Whom men love not ,— and yet regret , Unlike this day , which , when the sun Shall on its stainless glory set , Will linger , though enjoyed , like joy in memory yet .
Break , break , break , On thy cold gray stones , O Sea ! And I would that my tongue could utter The thoughts that arise in me .
O well for the fisherman "s boy , That he shouts with his sister at play ! O well for the sailor lad , That he sings in his boat on the bay !
And the stately ships go on To their haven under the hill ; But O for the touch of a vanish "d hand , And the sound of a voice that is still !
Break , break , break , At the foot of thy crags , O Sea ! But the tender grace of a day that is dead Will never come back to me .
TAKE up the White Man"s burden - Send forth the best ye breed - Go bind your sons to exile To serve your captives" need; To wait in heavy harness On fluttered folk and wild - Your new-caught sullen peoples, Half devil and half child. Take up the White Man"s burden - In patience to abide To veil the threat of terror And check the show of pride; By open speech and simple, An hundred times made plain, To seek another"s profit, And work another"s gain.
Take up the White Man"s burden - The savage wars of peace - Fill full the mouth of famine And bid the sickness cease; And when your goal is nearest The end for others sought, Watch Sloth and heathen Folly Bring all your hopes to nought.
Take up the White Man"s burden - No tawdry rule of kings, But toil of serf and sweeper - The tale of common things. The ports ye shall not enter, The roads ye shall not tread, Go make them with your living, And mark them with your dead !
Take up the White Man"s burden - And reap his old reward, The blame of those ye better, The hate of those ye guard - The cry of hosts ye humour (Ah slowly !) towards the light:- "Why brought ye us from bondage, "Our loved Egyptian night ?"
Take up the White Man"s burden - Ye dare not stoop to less - Nor call too loud on Freedom To cloak your weariness; By all ye cry or whisper, By all ye leave or do, The silent sullen peoples Shall weigh your Gods and you.
Take up the White Man"s burden - Have done with childish days - The lightly proffered laurel, The easy, ungrudged praise. Comes now, to search your manhood Through all the thankless years, Cold-edged with dear-bought wisdom, The judgement of your peers.
They shut the road through the woods Seventy years ago. Weather and rain have undone it again, And now you would never know There was once a road through the woods Before they planted the trees. It is underneath the coppice and heath, And the thin anemones. Only the keeper sees That, where the ring-dove broods, And the badgers roll at ease, There was once a road through the woods.
Yet, if you enter the woods Of a summer evening late, When the night-air cools on the trout-ringed pools Where the otter whistles his mate, (They fear not men in the woods, Because they see so few.) You will hear the beat of a horse’s feet, And the swish of a skirt in the dew, Steadily cantering through The misty solitudes, As though they perfectly knew The old lost road through the woods. But there is no road through the woods.
O rose , thou art sick ! The invisible worm , That flies in the night , In the howling storm ,
Has found out thy bed Of crimson joy , And his dark secret love Does thy life destroy .
I was angry with my friend : I told my wrath , my wrath did end . I was angry with my foe : I told it not , my wrath did grow .
And I watered it in fears Night and morning with my tears , And I sunned it with smiles And with soft deceitful wiles .
Earth has not anything to show more fair: Dull would he be of soul who could pass by A sight so touching in its majesty: This City now doth, like a garment, wear The beauty of the morning: silent, bare, Ships, towers, domes, theatres, and temples lie Open unto the fields, and to the sky; All bright and glittering in the smokeless air. Never did sun more beautifully steep In his first splendour, valley, rock, or hill; Ne’er saw I, never felt, a calm so deep! The river glideth at his own sweet will: Dear God! the very houses seem asleep; And all that mighty heart is lying still!
My heart leaps up when I behold A rainbow in the sky: So was it when my life began; So is it now I am a man; So be it when I shall grow old, Or let me die! The Child is father of the Man; And I could wish my days to be Bound each to each by natural piety.
I tell you, hopeless grief is passionless; That only men incredulous of despair, Half-taught in anguish, through the midnight air Beat upward to God’s throne in loud access Of shrieking and reproach. Full desertness, In souls as countries, lieth silent-bare Under the blanching, vertical eye-glare Of the absolute heavens. Deep-hearted man, express Grief for thy dead in silence like to death— Most like a monumental statue set In everlasting watch and moveless woe Till itself crumble to the dust beneath. Touch it; the marble eyelids are not wet: If it could weep, it could arise and go.
Let the world "s sharpness , like a clasping knife , Shut in upon itself and do no harm In this close hand of Love , now soft and warm , And let us hear no sound of human strife After the click of the shutting . Life to life — I lean upon thee , Dear , without alarm , And feel as safe as guarded by a charm Against the stab of worldlings , who if rife Are weak to injure . Very-whitely still The lilies of our lives may reassure Their blossoms from their roots , accessible Alone to heavenly dews that drop not fewer Growing straight , out of man "s reach , on the hill . God only , who made us rich , can make us poor .
AH, how sweet it is to love! Ah, how gay is young Desire! And what pleasing pains we prove When we first approach Love"s fire! Pains of love be sweeter far Than all other pleasures are.
Sighs which are from lovers blown Do but gently heave the heart: Ev"n the tears they shed alone Cure, like trickling balm, their smart: Lovers, when they lose their breath, Bleed away in easy death.
Love and Time with reverence use, Treat them like a parting friend; Nor the golden gifts refuse Which in youth sincere they send: For each year their price is more, And they less simple than before.
Love, like spring-tides full and high, Swells in every youthful vein; But each tide does less supply, Till they quite shrink in again: If a flow in age appear, "Tis but rain, and runs not clear.
FROM harmony , from heavenly harmony This universal frame began : When nature underneath a heap Of jarring atoms lay , And could not heave her head , The tuneful voice was heard from high , Arise , ye more than dead . Then cold , and hot , and moist , and dry , In order to their stations leap , And Music "s power obey . From harmony , from heavenly harmony This universal frame began : From harmony to harmony Through all the compass of the notes it rail , The diapason closing full in Man .
What passion cannot Music raise and quell ? When Jubal struck the chorded shell , His listening brethren stood around , And , wondering , on their faces fell To worship that celestial sound . Less than a God they thought there could not dwell Within the hollow of that shell , That spoke so sweetly and so well . What passion cannot Music raise and quell ?
The trumpet "s loud clangour Excites us to arms , With shrill notes of anger , And mortal alarms . The double double double beat Of the thundering drum Cries , hark ! the foes come ; Charge , charge ! " tis too late to retreat .
The soft complaining flute In dying notes discovers The woes of hopeless lovers , Whose dirge is whisper "d by the warbling lute .
Sharp violins proclaim Their jealous pangs , and desperation , Fury , frantic indignation , Depth of pains , and height of passion , For the fair , disdainful dame .
But oh ! what art can teach , What human voice can reach , The sacred organ "s praise ? Notes inspiring holy love , Notes that wing their heavenly ways To mend the choirs above .
Orpheus could lead the savage race ; And trees uprooted left their place , Sequacious of the lyre : But bright Cecilia raised the wonder higher : When to her organ vocal breath was given , An angel heard , and straight appear "d , Mistaking earth for heaven .
The flower that smiles to-day To-morrow dies ; All that we wish to stay Tempts and then flies . What is this world "s delight ? Lightning that mocks the night , Brief even as bright .
Virtue , how frail it is ! Friendship how rare ! Love , how it sells poor bliss For proud despair ! But we , though soon they fall , Survive their joy , and all Which ours we call .
Whilst skies are blue and bright , Whilst flowers are gay , Whilst eyes that change ere night Make glad the day ; Whilst yet the calm hours creep , Dream thou — and from thy sleep Then wake to weep .
John Anderson , my jo , John , When we were first acquent ; Your locks were like the raven , Your bonie brow was brent ; But now your brow is beld , John , Your locks are like the snaw ; But blessings on your frosty pow , John Anderson , my jo .
John Anderson , my jo , John , We clamb the hill thegither ; And mony a cantie day , John , We "ve had wi ’ ane anither : Now we maun totter down , John , And hand in hand we "ll go , And sleep thegither at the foot , John Anderson , my jo .
The expense of spirit in a waste of shame Is lust in action : and till action , lust Is perjur "d , murderous , bloody , full of blame , Savage , extreme , rude , cruel , not to trust ; Enjoy "d no sooner but despised straight ; Past reason hunted ; and no sooner had , Past reason hated , as a swallow "d bait , On purpose laid to make the taker mad : Mad in pursuit and in possession so ; Had , having , and in quest , to have extreme ; A bliss in proof ,— and prov "d , a very woe ; Before , a joy propos "d ; behind a dream . All this the world well knows ; yet none knows well To shun the heaven that leads men to this hell .
When my love swears that she is made of truth , I do believe her , though I know she lies , That she might think me some untutor "d youth , Unskilful in the world "s false forgeries , Thus vainly thinking that she thinks me young , Although I know my years be past the best , I smiling credit her false-speaking tongue , Outfacing faults in love with love "s ill rest . But wherefore says my love that she is young ? And wherefore say not I that I am old ? O , love "s best habit is a soothing tongue , And age , in love , loves not to have years told . Therefore , I "ll lie with love , and love with me , Since that our faults in love thus smother "d be .
Sunset and evening star, And one clear call for me! And may there be no moaning of the bar, When I put out to sea,
But such a tide as moving seems asleep, Too full for sound and foam, When that which drew from out the boundless deep Turns again home.
Twilight and evening bell, And after that the dark! And may there be no sadness of farewell, When I embark;
For tho’ from out our bourne of Time and Place The flood may bear me far, I hope to see my Pilot face to face When I have crost the bar.
Tyger , tyger , burning bright In the forests of the night , What immortal hand or eye Could frame thy fearful symmetry ?
In what distant deeps or skies Burnt the fire of thine eyes ? On what wings dare he aspire ? What the hand dare seize the fire ?
And what shoulder and what art Could twist the sinews of thy heart ? And , when thy heart began to beat , What dread hand and what dread feet ?
What the hammer ? what the chain ? In what furnace was thy brain ? What the anvil ? what dread grasp Dare its deadly terrors clasp ?
When the stars threw down their spears , And watered heaven with their tears , Did he smile his work to see ? Did he who made the lamb make thee ?
Tyger , tyger , burning bright In the forests of the night , What immortal hand or eye Dare frame thy fearful symmetry ?
A sudden blow: the great wings beating still Above the staggering girl, her thighs caressed By the dark webs, her nape caught in his bill, He holds her helpless breast upon his breast.
How can those terrified vague fingers push The feathered glory from her loosening thighs? And how can body, laid in that white rush, But feel the strange heart beating where it lies?
A shudder in the loins engenders there The broken wall, the burning roof and tower And Agamemnon dead. Being so caught up, So mastered by the brute blood of the air, Did she put on his knowledge with his power Before the indifferent beak could let her drop?
Half a league , half a league , Half a league onward , All in the valley of Death Rode the six hundred . ‘ Forward , the Light Brigade ! ’ ‘ Charge for the guns ! ’ he said : Into the valley of Death Rode the six hundred .
‘ Forward , the Light Brigade ! ’ Was there a man dismay "d ? Not tho ’ the soldier knew Some one had blunder "d : Their "s not to make reply , Their "s not to reason why , Their "s but to do and die : Into the valley of Death Rode the six hundred .
Cannon to right of them , Cannon to left of them , Cannon in front of them Volley "d and thunder "d ; Storm "d at with shot and shell , Boldly they rode and well , Into the jaws of Death , Into the mouth of Hell Rode the six hundred .
Flash "d all their sabres bare , Flash "d as they turn "d in air , Sabring the gunners there , Charging an army , while All the world wonder "d : Plunged in the battery-smoke Right thro ’ the line they broke ; Cossack and Russian Reel "d from the sabre-stroke Shatter "d and sunder "d . Then they rode back , but not Not the six hundred .
Cannon to right of them , Cannon to left of them , Cannon behind them Volley "d and thunder "d ; Storm "d at with shot and shell , While horse and hero fell , They that had fought so well Came thro ’ the jaws of Death , Back from the mouth of Hell , All that was left of them , Left of six hundred .
When can their glory fade ? O the wild charge they made ! All the world wondered . Honor the charge they made ! Honor the Light Brigade , Noble six hundred !
Pain has an element of blank ; It cannot recollect When it began , or if there were A day when it was not .
It has no future but itself , Its infinite realms contain Its past , enlightened to perceive New periods of pain .
I taste a liquor never brewed , From tankards scooped in pearl ; Not all the vats upon the Rhine Yield such an alcohol !
Inebriate of air am I , And debauchee of dew , Reeling , through endless summer days , From inns of molten blue .
When landlords turn the drunken bee Out of the foxglove "s door , When butterflies renounce their drams , I shall but drink the more !
Till seraphs swing their snowy hats , And saints to windows run , To see the little tippler Leaning against the sun !
Bright star, would I were stedfast as thou art— Not in lone splendour hung aloft the night And watching, with eternal lids apart, Like nature’s patient, sleepless Eremite, The moving waters at their priestlike task Of pure ablution round earth’s human shores, Or gazing on the new soft-fallen mask Of snow upon the mountains and the moors— No—yet still stedfast, still unchangeable, Pillow’d upon my fair love’s ripening breast, To feel for ever its soft fall and swell, Awake for ever in a sweet unrest, Still, still to hear her tender-taken breath, And so live ever—or else swoon to death.
My spirit is too weak—mortality Weighs heavily on me like unwilling sleep, And each imagined pinnacle and steep Of godlike hardship tells me I must die Like a sick eagle looking at the sky. Yet ‘tis a gentle luxury to weep, That I have not the cloudy winds to keep, Fresh for the opening of the morning’s eye. Such dim-conceived glories of the brain Bring round the heart an indescribable feud; So do these wonders a most dizzy pain, That mingles Grecian grandeur with the rude Wasting of old Time—with a billowy main— A sun—a shadow of a magnitude.
Ye flowery banks o ’ bonie Doon , How can ye blume sae fair ? How can ye chant , ye little birds , And I sae fu ’ o care ! Thou "ll break my heart , thou bonie bird , That sings upon the bough ! Thou minds me o ’ the happy days When my fause Luve was true . Thou "ll break my heart , thou bonie bird , That sings beside thy mate ; For sae I sat , and sae I sang , And wist na o ’ my fate .
Aft hae I rov "d by bonie Doon , To see the woodbine twine ; And ilka bird sang o ’ its Luve , And sae did I o ’ mine . Wi ’ lightsome heart I pu "d a rose , Upon its thorny tree ; But my fause Luver staw my rose , And left the thorn wi ’ me . Wi ’ lightsome heart I pu "d a rose , Upon a morn in June ; And sae I flourished on the morn , And sae was pu "d or noon .
Is there for honest Poverty That hings his head , an ’ a ’ that ; The coward slave — we pass him by , We dare be poor for a ’ that ! For a ’ that , an ’ a ’ that . Our toils obscure an ’ a ’ that , The rank is but the guinea "s stamp , The Man "s the gowd for a ’ that .
What though on hamely fare we dine , Wear hoddin grey , an ’ a that ; Gie fools their silks , and knaves their wine ; A Man "s a Man for a ’ that : For a ’ that , and a ’ that , Their tinsel show , an ’ a ’ that ; The honest man , tho ’ e"er sae poor , Is king o ’ men for a ’ that .
Ye see yon birkie , ca "d a lord , Wha struts , an ’ stares , an ’ a ’ that ; Tho ’ hundreds worship at his word , He "s but a coof for a ’ that : For a ’ that , an ’ a ’ that , His ribband , star , an ’ a ’ that : The man o ’ independent mind He looks an ’ laughs at a ’ that .
A prince can mak a belted knight , A marquis , duke , an ’ a ’ that ; But an honest man "s abon his might , Gude faith , he maunna fa ’ that ! For a ’ that , an ’ a ’ that , Their dignities an ’ a ’ that ; The pith o ’ sense , an ’ pride o ’ worth , Are higher rank than a ’ that .
Then let us pray that come it may , ( As come it will for a ’ that ,) That Sense and Worth , o"er a ’ the earth , Shall bear the gree , an ’ a ’ that . For a ’ that , an ’ a ’ that , It "s coming yet for a ’ that , That Man to Man , the world o"er , Shall brothers be for a ’ that .
They are rattling breakfast plates in basement kitchens , And along the trampled edges of the street I am aware of the damp souls of housemaids Sprouting despondently at area gates .
The brown waves of fog toss up to me Twisted faces from the bottom of the street , And tear from a passer-by with muddy skirts An aimless smile that hovers in the air And vanishes along the level of the roofs .
The winter evening settles down With smell of steaks in passageways . Six o"clock . The burnt-out ends of smoky days . And now a gusty shower wraps The grimy scraps Of withered leaves about your feet And newspapers from vacant lots ; The showers beat On broken blinds and chimney-pots , And at the corner of the street A lonely cab-horse steams and stamps . And then the lighting of the lamps .
The morning comes to consciousness Of faint stale smells of beer From the sawdust-trampled street With all its muddy feet that press To early coffee-stands . With the other masquerades That time resumes , One thinks of all the hands That are raising dingy shades In a thousand furnished rooms .
You tossed a blanket from the bed , You lay upon your back , and waited ; You dozed , and watched the night revealing The thousand sordid images Of which your soul was constituted ; They flickered against the ceiling . And when all the world came back And the light crept up between the shutters , And you heard the sparrows in the gutters , You had such a vision of the street As the street hardly understands ; Sitting along the bed "s edge , where You curled the papers from your hair , Or clasped the yellow soles of feet In the palms of both soiled hands .
His soul stretched tight across the skies That fade behind a city block , Or trampled by insistent feet At four and five and six o"clock And short square fingers stuffing pipes , And evening newspapers , and eyes Assured of certain certainties , The conscience of a blackened street Impatient to assume the world . I am moved by fancies that are curled Around these images , and cling : The notion of some infinitely gentle Infinitely suffering thing . Wipe your hand across your mouth , and laugh ; The worlds revolve like ancient women Gathering fuel in vacant lots .
Nor dread nor hope attend A dying animal; A man awaits his end Dreading and hoping all; Many times he died, Many times rose again, A great man in his pride Confronting murderous men Casts derision upon Supersession of breath; He knows death to the bone – Man has created death.
Turning and turning in the widening gyre The falcon cannot hear the falconer; Things fall apart; the centre cannot hold; Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world, The blood-dimmed tide is loosed, and everywhere The ceremony of innocence is drowned; The best lack all conviction, while the worst Are full of passionate intensity.
Surely some revelation is at hand; Surely the Second Coming is at hand. The Second Coming! Hardly are those words out When a vast image out of Spiritus Mundi Troubles my sight: somewhere in sands of the desert A shape with lion body and the head of a man, A gaze blank and pitiless as the sun, Is moving its slow thighs, while all about it Reel shadows of the indignant desert birds. The darkness drops again; but now I know That twenty centuries of stony sleep Were vexed to nightmare by a rocking cradle, And what rough beast, its hour come round at last, Slouches towards Bethlehem to be born?
Of all the Poisons that the fruitful Earth E"er yet brought forth , or Monsters she gave Birth , Nought to Mankind has e"er so fatal been , As thou , accursed Gold , their Care and Sin .
Methinks I the Advent"rous Merchant see , Ploughing the faithless Seas , in search of thee , His dearest Wife and Children left behind , ( His real Wealth ) while he , a Slave to th ’ Wind , Sometimes becalm "d , the Shore with longing Eyes Wishes to see , and what he wishes , Spies : For a rude Tempest wakes him from his Dream , And Strands his Bark by a more sad Extream . Thus , hopless Wretch , is his whole Life-time spent , And though thrice Wreck"t , ‘ s no Wiser than he went .
Again , I see , the Heavenly Fair despis "d , A Hagg like Hell , with Gold , more highly priz "d ; Mens Faith betray "d , their Prince and Country Sold , Their God deny "d , all for the Idol Gold .
Unhappy Wretch , who first found out the Oar , What kind of Vengeance rests for thee in store ? If Nebats Son , that Israel led astray , Meet a severe Reward at the last Day ? Some strange unheard-of Judgement thou wilt find , Who thus hast caus "d to Sin all Humane Kind .
When first Alexis did in Verse delight , His Muse in Low , but Graceful Numbers walk"t , And now and then a little Proudly stalk"t ; But never aim "d at any noble Flight : The Herds , the Groves , the gentle purling Streams , Adorn "d his Song , and were his highest Theams .
But Love these Thoughts , like Mists , did soon disperse , Enlarg "d his Fancy , and set free his Muse , Biding him more Illustrious Subjects choose ; The Acts of Gods , and God-like Men reherse . From thence new Raptures did his Breast inspire , His scarce Warm-Heart converted was to Fire .
Th ’ exalted Poet rais "d by this new Flame , With Vigor flys , where late he crept along , And Acts Divine , in a Diviner Song , Commits to the eternal Trompe of Fame . And thus Alexis does prove Love to be , As the Worlds Soul , the Soul of Poetry .
Success is counted sweetest By those who ne"er succeed . To comprehend a nectar Requires sorest need .
Not one of all the purple host Who took the flag to-day Can tell the definition , So clear , of victory ,
As he , defeated , dying , On whose forbidden ear The distant strains of triumph Break , agonized and clear !
I felt a funeral in my brain , And mourners , to and fro , Kept treading , treading , till it seemed That sense was breaking through .
And when they all were seated , A service like a drum Kept beating , beating , till I thought My mind was going numb .
And then I heard them lift a box , And creak across my soul With those same boots of lead , again . Then space began to toll
As all the heavens were a bell , And Being but an ear , And I and silence some strange race , Wrecked , solitary , here .
And then a Plank in Reason, broke, And I dropped down, and down - And hit a World, at every plunge, And Finished knowing - then -
WHEN I consider how my light is spent Ere half my days in this dark world and wide, And that one Talent which is death to hide Lodged with me useless, though my soul more bent
To serve therewith my Maker, and present My true account, lest He returning chide, “Doth God exact day-labour, light denied?” I fondly ask. But Patience, to prevent
That murmur, soon replies, “God doth not need Bear his mild yoke, they serve him best. His state
Is kingly: thousands at his bidding speed, They also serve who only stand and wait.”
HOW soon hath Time, the subtle thief of youth, Stolen on his wing my three and twentieth year! My hasting days fly on with full career, But my late spring no bud or blossom shew’th. Perhaps my semblance might deceive the truth, That I to manhood am arrived so near, And inward ripeness doth much less appear, That some more timely-happy spirits indu’th. Yet be it less or more, or soon or slow, It shall be still in strictest measure even To that same lot, however mean or high, Toward which Time leads me, and the will of Heaven, All is, if I have grace to use it so, As ever in my great Task-master’s eye
THERE was never a sound beside the wood but one , And that was my long scythe whispering to the ground . What was it it whispered ? I knew not well myself ; Perhaps it was something about the heat of the sun , Something , perhaps , about the lack of sound — And that was why it whispered and did not speak . It was no dream of the gift of idle hours , Or easy gold at the hand of fay or elf : Anything more than the truth would have seemed too weak To the earnest love that laid the swale in rows , Not without feeble-pointed spikes of flowers ( Pale orchises ) , and scared a bright green snake . The fact is the sweetest dream that labor knows . My long scythe whispered and left the hay to make .
Some say the world will end in fire, Some say in ice. From what I’ve tasted of desire I hold with those who favor fire. But if it had to perish twice, I think I know enough of hate To say that for destruction ice Is also great And would suffice.
I hear America singing , the varied carols I hear , Those of mechanics , each one singing his as it should be blithe and strong , The carpenter singing his as he measures his plank or beam , The mason singing his as he makes ready for work , or leaves off work , The boatman singing what belongs to him in his boat , the deckhand singing on the steamboat deck , The shoemaker singing as he sits on his bench , the hatter singing as he stands , The wood-cutter "s song , the ploughboy "s on his way in the morning , or at noon intermission or at sundown , The delicious singing of the mother , or of the young wife at work , or of the girl sewing or washing , Each singing what belongs to him or her and to none else , The day what belongs to the day — at night the party of young fellows , robust , friendly , Singing with open mouths their strong melodious songs .
O Captain! my Captain! our fearful trip is done, The ship has weather’d every rack, the prize we sought is won, The port is near, the bells I hear, the people all exulting, While follow eyes the steady keel, the vessel grim and daring; But O heart! heart! heart! O the bleeding drops of red, Where on the deck my Captain lies, Fallen cold and dead.
O Captain! my Captain! rise up and hear the bells; Rise up—for you the flag is flung—for you the bugle trills, For you bouquets and ribbon’d wreaths—for you the shores a-crowding, For you they call, the swaying mass, their eager faces turning; Here Captain! dear father! This arm beneath your head! It is some dream that on the deck, You’ve fallen cold and dead.
My Captain does not answer, his lips are pale and still, My father does not feel my arm, he has no pulse nor will, The ship is anchor’d safe and sound, its voyage closed and done, From fearful trip the victor ship comes in with object won; Exult O shores, and ring O bells! But I with mournful tread, Walk the deck my Captain lies, Fallen cold and dead.
If I when my wife is sleeping and the baby and Kathleen are sleeping and the sun is a flame-white disc in silken mists above shining trees ,— if I in my north room danse naked , grotesquely before my mirror waving my shirt round my head and singing softly to myself : “I am lonely, lonely. I was born to be lonely . I am best so !” If I admire my arms , my face, my shoulders , flanks , buttocks against the yellow drawn shades ,—
who shall say I am not the happy genius of my household ?
OLD age is a flight of small cheeping birds skimming bare trees above a snow glaze. Gaining and failing they are buffeted by a dark wind-- But what? On harsh weedstalks the flock has rested, the snow is covered with broken seedhusks and the wind tempered by a shrill piping of plenty.
My love is like to ice, and I to fire: How comes it then that this her cold so great Is not dissolved through my so hot desire, But harder grows the more I her entreat? Or how comes it that my exceeding heat Is not allayed by her heart-frozen cold, But that I burn much more in boiling sweat, And feel my flames augmented manifold? What more miraculous thing may be told, That fire, which all things melts, should harden ice, And ice, which is congeal"s with senseless cold, Should kindle fire by wonderful device? Such is the power of love in gentle mind, That it can alter all the course of kind.
Of this worlds theatre in which we stay, My love like the spectator ydly sits Beholding me that all the pageants play, Disguysing diversly my troubled wits. Sometimes I joy when glad occasion fits, And mask in myrth lyke to a comedy: Soone after when my joy to sorrow flits, I waile and make my woes a tragedy. Yet she, beholding me with constant eye, Delights not in my merth nor rues my smart: But when I laugh she mocks, and when I cry She laughs and hardens evermore her heart. What then can move her? if nor merth nor mone, She is no woman, but a senceless stone.
Happy the man whose wish and care A few paternal acres bound , Content to breathe his native air , In his own ground .
Whose herds with milk , whose fields with bread , Whose flocks supply him with attire , Whose trees in summer yield him shade , In winter fire .
Blest , who can unconcern"dly find Hours , days , and years slide soft away , In health of body , peace of mind , Quiet by day ,
Sound sleep by night ; study and ease , Together mixt ; sweet recreation ; And Innocence , which most does please With meditation .
Thus let me live , unseen , unknown , Thus unlamented let me die , Steal from the world , and not a stone Tell where I lie .
?o i
Death if Death good:for
begin to feel of it,dying why?be
perfectly natural;perfectly it mildly lively(but
is strictly &amp; artificial &amp;
we thank thee god almighty for dying (forgive us,o life!the sin of Death
i carry your heart with me(i carry it in my heart)i am never without it(anywhere i go you go,my dear;and whatever is done by only me is your doing,my darling) i fear
no fate(for you are my fate,my sweet)i want no world(for beautiful you are my world,my true) and it’s you are whatever a moon has always meant and whatever a sun will always sing is you
here is the deepest secret nobody knows (here is the root of the root and the bud of the bud and the sky of the sky of a tree called life;which grows higher than soul can hope or mind can hide) and this is the wonder that"s keeping the stars apart
In vain , in vain — the all-composing Hour Resistless falls : the Muse obeys the Pow"r . She comes ! she comes ! the sable Throne behold Of Night primæval and of Chaos old ! Before her , Fancy "s gilded clouds decay , And all its varying Rain-bows die away . Wit shoots in vain its momentary fires , The meteor drops , and in a flash expires . As one by one , at dread Medea "s strain , The sick"ning stars fade off th ’ ethereal plain ; As Argus ’ eyes by Hermes ’ wand opprest , Clos "d one by one to everlasting rest ; Thus at her felt approach , and secret might , Art after Art goes out , and all is Night . See skulking Truth to her old cavern fled , Mountains of Casuistry heap "d o"er her head ! Philosophy , that lean "d on Heav"n before , Shrinks to her second cause , and is no more . Physic of Metaphysic begs defence , And Metaphysic calls for aid on Sense ! See Mystery to Mathematics fly ! In vain ! they gaze , turn giddy , rave , and die . Religion blushing veils her sacred fires , And unawares Morality expires . For public Flame , nor private , dares to shine ; Nor human Spark is left , nor Glimpse divine ! Lo ! thy dread Empire , CHAOS ! is restor "d ; Light dies before thy uncreating word ; Thy hand , great Anarch ! lets the curtain fall , And universal Darkness buries All .
I "m nobody ! Who are you ? Are you nobody , too ? Then there ‘ s a pair of us — do n"t tell ! They ‘ d banish us , you know .
How dreary to be somebody ! How public , like a frog To tell your name the livelong day To an admiring bog !
Marke but this flea , and marke in this , How little that which thou deny"st me is ; It suck "d me first , and now sucks thee , And in this flea , our two bloods mingled bee ; Thou know"st that this cannot be said A sinne , nor shame , nor losse of maidenhead , Yet this enjoyes before it wooe , And pamper "d swells with one blood made of two , And this , alas , is more then wee would doe .
Oh stay , three lives in one flea spare , Where wee almost , yea more then maryed are . This flea is you and I , and this Our mariage bed , and mariage temple is ; Though parents grudge , and you , w"are met , And cloysterd in these living walls of Jet . Though use make you apt to kill mee , Let not to that , selfe murder added bee , And sacrilege , three sinnes in killing three .
Cruell and sodaine , hast thou since Purpled thy naile , in blood of innocence ? Wherein could this flea guilty bee , Except in that drop which it suckt from thee ? Yet thou triumph"st , and saist that thou Find"st not thy selfe , nor mee the weaker now ; ‘ Tis true , then learne how false , feares bee ; 25 Just so much honor , when thou yeeld"st to mee , Will wast , as this flea "s death tooke life from thee .
NOW the bright morning-star, Day’s harbinger, Comes dancing from the East, and leads with her The flowery May, who from her green lap throws The yellow cowslip and the pale primrose. Hail, bounteous May, that dost inspire Mirth, and youth, and warm desire! Woods and groves are of thy dressing; Hill and dale doth boast thy blessing. Thus we salute thee with our early song, And welcome thee, and wish thee long.
I met a traveller from an antique land Who said : Two vast and trunkless legs of stone Stand in the desert ... Near them , on the sand , Half sunk , a shattered visage lies , whose frown , And wrinkled lip , and sneer of cold command , Tell that its sculptor well those passions read Which yet survive , stamped on these lifeless things , The hand that mocked them , and the heart that fed : And on the pedestal these words appear : ‘ My name is Ozymandias , king of kings : Look on my works , ye Mighty , and despair ! ’ Nothing beside remains . Round the decay Of that colossal wreck , boundless and bare The lone and level sands stretch far away .
Snow falling and night falling fast, oh, fast In a field I looked into going past, And the ground almost covered smooth in snow, But a few weeds and stubble showing last.
The woods around it have it--it is theirs. All animals are smothered in their lairs. I am too absent-spirited to count; The loneliness includes me unawares.
And lonely as it is that loneliness Will be more lonely ere it will be less-- A blanker whiteness of benighted snow With no expression, nothing to express.
They cannot scare me with their empty spaces Between stars--on stars where no human race is. I have it in me so much nearer home To scare myself with my own desert places.
If you can keep your head when all about you Are losing theirs and blaming it on you, If you can trust yourself when all men doubt you, But make allowance for their doubting too; If you can wait and not be tired by waiting, Or being lied about, don’t deal in lies, Or being hated, don’t give way to hating, And yet don’t look too good, nor talk too wise:
If you can dream—and not make dreams your master; If you can think—and not make thoughts your aim; If you can meet with Triumph and Disaster And treat those two impostors just the same; If you can bear to hear the truth you’ve spoken Twisted by knaves to make a trap for fools, Or watch the things you gave your life to, broken, And stoop and build ’em up with worn-out tools:
If you can make one heap of all your winnings And risk it on one turn of pitch-and-toss, And lose, and start again at your beginnings And never breathe a word about your loss; If you can force your heart and nerve and sinew To serve your turn long after they are gone, And so hold on when there is nothing in you Except the Will which says to them: ‘Hold on!’
If you can talk with crowds and keep your virtue, Or walk with Kings—nor lose the common touch, If neither foes nor loving friends can hurt you, If all men count with you, but none too much; If you can fill the unforgiving minute With sixty seconds’ worth of distance run, Yours is the Earth and everything that’s in it, And—which is more—you’ll be a Man, my son!
A noiseless patient spider , I mark "d where on a little promontory it stood isolated , Mark "d how to explore the vacant vast surrounding , It launch "d forth filament , filament , filament out of itself , Ever unreeling them , ever tirelessly speeding them .
And you O my soul where you stand , Surrounded , detached , in measureless oceans of space , Ceaselessly musing , venturing , throwing , seeking the spheres to connect them , Till the bridge you will need be form "d , till the ductile anchor hold , Till the gossamer thread you fling catch somewhere , O my soul .
I wandered through each chartered street , Near where the chartered Thames does flow , A mark in every face I meet , Marks of weakness , marks of woe .
In every cry of every man , In every infant "s cry of fear , In every voice , in every ban , The mind-forged manacles I hear :
How the chimney-sweeper "s cry Every blackening church appalls , And the hapless soldier "s sigh Runs in blood down palace-walls .
But most , through midnight streets I hear How the youthful harlot "s curse Blasts the new-born infant "s tear , And blights with plagues the marriage-hearse .
AT ten A.M. the young housewife moves about in negligee behind the wooden walls of her husband"s house. I pass solitary in my car. Then again she comes to the curb to call the ice-man, fish-man, and stands shy, uncorseted, tucking in stray ends of hair, and I compare her to a fallen leaf. The noiseless wheels of my car rush with a crackling sound over dried leaves as I bow and pass smiling.
I wandered lonely as a Cloud That floats on high over Vales and Hills , When all at once I saw a crowd A host of dancing Daffodills ; Along the Lake , beneath the trees , Ten thousand dancing in the breeze .
Continuous as the stars that shine And twinkle on the milky way, They stretched in never-ending line Along the margin of a bay: Ten thousand saw I at a glance, Tossing their heads in sprightly dance.
The waves beside them danced , but they Outdid the sparkling waves in glee :— A Poet could not but be gay In such a laughing company : I gazed — and gazed — but little thought What wealth the shew to me had brought :
For oft when on my couch I lie In vacant or in pensive mood , They flash upon that inward eye Which is the bliss of solitude , And then my heart with pleasure fills , And dances with the Daffodils .
There is a weeping in the world, as if the dear God had died, And the leaden shadow that falls down weighs heavily on the grave.
Come, we want to hide closer? Like in coffins.
You! We want to kiss deeply - from which we must die.
The moon emerges from the yellow wall of clouds. The lunatics hang on the bars, like large spiders sticking to walls. Along the garden fence their hand travels.
Dancers are seen floating in open halls. It is the ball of the lunatics. Suddenly, madness cries out. The roar spreads far and wide, so that all the walls shake with the noise.
With whom he just talked about Hume, He is in the blood. His skull is broken.
The bunch of lunatics look amused, but soon they look like mice crawling into the ground.
Oh, the madness of the great city, when in the evening crippled trees stare at a black wall, the spirit of evil looks out of a silver mask; light with a magnetic scourge displaces the stony night. Oh, the sunken ringing of the evening bells.
Whore who gives birth to a dead child in icy showers. God's wrath whips furiously the foreheads of the possessed, purple plague, hunger that breaks green eyes. Oh, the horrible laughter of gold.
But silent bleeds in dark cave dumb mankind, Adds the redeeming head of hard metals.
In an old book I came across a word that struck me like a blow and burns away through my days: And when I forgive myself for gloomy lust, when I lift up appearances, lies and games to me instead of the being, When I lie to myself with a swift sense, As if dark things were clear, as if life did not carry a thousand wildly locked gates, And contradict words whose breadth I never felt, And grasp things whose being never troubled me, When a welcome dream strokes me with velvet walls, And day and reality escapes from me, Alienated from the world, alien to the deepest I, Then the word rises to me: Man, become essential!
Heaven, great, full of splendid behaviour, a store of space, an abundance of world. And we, too far away for configuration, too near for turning away.
There falls a star! And our wish to him, startled, urgently connected: What has begun, and what has passed away? What is in debt? And what is forgiven?
And fresh food, new blood suck? I from a free world; How is nature so good and gentle, Who holds me by the bosom! The wave cradles our barge at the stroke of a rudder, And mountains, cloudy sky, Meet our course.
Eye, my eye, why do you sink? Golden dreams come back to you? Away, you dream! if you are gold; here also is love and life.
On the wave twinkle a thousand floating stars, soft mists drink round the storming distance; morning wind wafts around The shaded bay, And in the lake the ripening fruit is reflected.
Saw a little boy? a little horse standing, little horse on the heath, Was so young and beautiful in the morning, He ran quickly to see it close, Saw it with many joys. Little horse, little horse, red horse, little horse on the heath.
And the lad said, I will break thee, little horse upon the heathen. And the little horse said, I will sting thee, that thou mayest remember me for ever, and I will not suffer: little horse, little horse, red horse, little horse upon the heathen.
And the wild boy broke the little horse on the heathens; and the little horse fought back and stabbed him, but no woe or woe helped him, must he suffer? little horse, little horse, red horse, little horse on the heathens.
Long years ago the Nightingale sang, That was probably sweet sound, Since we were together.
I sing and cannot weep, And spin so alone The thread clear and pure As long as the moon will shine.
When we were together, the nightingale sang Now her sound reminds me that you drove from me.
As often as the moon may shine, I think I am yours alone. My heart is clear and pure, may God unite us.
Ever since you drove from me, the nightingale always sings, I think by her sound, How we were together.
May God unite us Here I spin so alone, The moon shines clear and pure, I sing 'and want to cry.
In a cool ground There goes a mill wheel, My beloved is gone, Who has lived there.
She promised me faithfulness, gave me a ring, she broke the faithfulness, My little ring jumped in two.
I want to travel far out into the world as a musician, And sing my wise men, And go from house to house.
I want to fly as a horseman into the bloody battle, To lie still in the field in the dark night.
I hear the mill wheel go: I don't know what I want - I'd like to die, I'd be quiet all of a sudden!
She is my life, my wealth and my money. Ännchen von Tharau has again turned her heart to me, in love and in pain Ännchen von Tharau, my wealth, my wealth, you my soul, my flesh and my blood.
We are minded to stand together. Disease, persecution, sorrow, and anguish shall be the bonding of our love. Change of Tharau, my riches, my wealth, my soul, my flesh, and my blood.
Just as a palm tree rises above itself, the more hail and rain attack it, so may the love in us become mighty and great, By cross, by suffering, by all kinds of distress. Change of Tharau, my riches, my wealth, Thou my soul, my flesh and my blood.
If you were to be separated from me, you would live where the sun is hardly known: I will follow you, through forests, through the sea, through ice, through iron, through enemy armies. Changes of Tharau, my 'sun, my glow, my life I close into yours.
I do not know what it means that I am so sad; A fairy tale from ancient times, that does not come out of my mind.
The air is cool and it is dark, And the Rhine flows calmly; The summit of the mountain sparkles in the evening sunshine.
The most beautiful maiden sits up there wonderfully; her golden jewels sparkle, she combs her golden hair.
She combs it with a golden comb and sings a song with it; it has a wondrous, mighty melody.
The boatman in the small ship is seized with wild woe; He does not look at the rock reefs, He only looks up to the heights.
In the end, I think the waves devour Schiffer and Kahn; and that's what Die Lore-Ley did with her singing.
Sleeps a song in all things, Which dream on and on, And the world begins to sing, If you meet only the magic word.
Eyes, my dear little windows, Give me a pleasant glow for so long, kindly let in picture after picture: One day you will be darkened!
If once the tired eyelids fall, extinguish it, then the soul has rest; groping, it strips off the hiking shoes, lays down also in its dark chest.
She sees two little sparks still standing smouldering, like two little stars to see inwardly, Till they waver and then also pass away, As of a butterfly's wingspan.
But I still walk in the evening field, Only joined to the sinking star; Drink, O eyes, what holds the eyelashes, Of the golden abundance of the world!
From the pointy head of the citizen the hat flies, In all the air it resounds like shouting. Roofers fall down and go in two And on the coasts? one reads? the tide rises.
The storm is here, the wild seas are hopping ashore to crush thick dams. Most people have a cold. Railways are falling off bridges.
A hair so bold in spite of the Berenice speaks A mouth / that carries roses and pearls A tongue / such a giff in front of a thousand hearts carries two breasts / where rubin breaks through alabaster
A neck / the swan-snow far back stabs Zwey cheeks / where the splendour of the flora moves A glance / the lightning guides and men lay down Zwey arms / whose strength offt leuen executed
A heart / out of which nothing but my ruin quilts Zwey hands / whose wrath cast a spell on me
And by a sweet poisons the soul itself enveloped has deprived me of my wit and my joy.
Minden is a strong castle, has good weir and weapons! However, I do not like to create anything with Prussian fortresses.
We arrived there in the evening. The planks of the Zugbrück groaned so eerily as we rolled over; the dark ditches yawned.
The high bastions looked at me, so menacing and exasperated; the great gate opened rattling, Ward rattling shut again.
Oh! my soul was grieved, As the soul of Ulysses, When he heard that Polyphemus pushed the boulder in front of the cave.
A corporal came up to the car and asked us: "My name is nobody, I'm an ophthalmologist and I stab the star."
In the tavern I felt even worse, I did not want to taste the food. I went to sleep immediately, but I did not sleep, the blankets were so heavy.
It was a wide feather bed, curtains of red damask, The sky of faded gold, With a dirty tassel.
Cursed tassel, who robbed me of my peace all night! He hung over my head like the sword of Damocles, so menacing!
Seemed to be a snake's head at times, and I heard him secretly hissing: "You are and remain in the fortress now, you can't escape!"
"Oh, that I was," I sighed, "that I was at home, with my lovely wife in Paris, at Faubourg Poissonnière!"
I felt as if something had been crossed over my forehead, like a cold censor's hand, And my thoughts gave way?
Gendarmes wrapped in mortuary sheets, a white haunted tangle, surrounded my bed, I also heard eerie chain clanking.
Oh! The ghosts dragged me away, And I found myself at last on a steep rock wall; There I was bound.
The wicked filthy bed-heaven tassel! I found him again, but he now looked like a vulture, with claws and black plumage.
He now resembled the Prussian eagle, and held my body in his clutches. He ate my liver out of my breast. I moaned and moaned.
I wailed for a long time, and the cock crowed, and the fever dream faded. I lay in the sweating bed at Minden, and the eagle became a tassel again.
I traveled with Extrapost, and drew free breath only out in the great outdoors, on bended ground.
With a roof and its shade, the stock of colorful horses rotates for a little while, all from the country that hesitates long before it goes down. Although some are hooked on chariots, all have courage in their faces; an evil red lion walks with them and every now and then a white elephant.
Even a deer is there, just like in the forest, a little blue girl strapped on.
And on the lion rides a white boy and holds himself with the little hot hand while the lion shows teeth and tongue. And now and then a white elephant.
And on the horses they pass by, even girls, bright ones, almost outgrown by this horse jump; in the middle of the swing they look up, somewhere, over - And now and then a white elephant.
And that goes and hurries, that it ends, and just circles and turns and has no goal. A red, a green, a gray sent by, a little barely begun profile -. And sometimes a smile, turned, a blissful one that dazzles and wastes on this breathless blind game...
The poles protrude from the gray rampart like a burnt forest into the early red, As black as slag. Where the water is dead To store the rotten and decaying.
The sound is muffled, as the tide returns along the quay. The city night flush floats like a white skin in the stream and rubs itself against the steamer resting in the dock.
Dust, fruit, paper, in a thick layer, So the excrement drifts out of its tubes whole. A white dance dress comes, in fat luster A naked neck and lead-white a face.
The corpse rolls out completely. The dress blows like a white ship in the wind. The dead eyes stare wide and blind at the sky, which is full of pink clouds.
The purple water trembles with a small wave. - The water rats track, the manned The white ship. Now it floats proudly from there, full of grey heads and full of black skins.
The dead woman sails out joyfully, torn by the wind and the high tide. Her thick belly carries the water large, hollowed out and almost gnawed. It roars like a grotto from the morsels.
She drifts into the sea. You salute Neptune From a wreck, as she devours the sea, In which she sinks to the green depths, To rest in the arms of the feisty octopus.
In the evening, when we walk on dark paths, our pale figures appear before us.
When we thirst, the sweetness of our sad childhood.
We rest the deceased under the Dutch bushes, watching the grey seagulls.
Spring clouds rise over the gloomy city, which is silent of the monks of nobler times.
Since I took your narrow hands This is a long time ago.
But when darkness haunts the soul, you appear white in the friend's autumnal landscape.
A fat boy is playing with a pond. The wind has caught in a tree. The sky looks dim and pale, as if he had run out of make-up.
Bent down on long crutches and chatting, two lame people crawl in the field. A blond poet might go mad. A little horse stumbles over a lady.
A fat man is glued to a window. A young man wants to visit a soft woman. A grey clown puts on his boots. A pram screams and dogs curse.
In the evening the autumnal forests sound of deadly weapons, the golden plains and blue lakes, over which the sun rolls gloom; the night embraces dying warriors, the wild lamentation of their broken mouths. But still gathers in the willow ground Red clouds, in which dwells an angry god, The shed blood, moonless coolness; All the streets flow into black decay. Under golden branches of the night and stars Shadows of the sister sway through the silent grove, To greet the spirits of the heroes, the bleeding heads; And the dark flutes of autumn sound softly in the pipe. O proud mourning! you bronze altars, The hot flame of the spirit nourishes today a mighty pain, The unborn grandchildren.
When you go to work in the early morning, when you stand at the train station With your worries: the city shows you millions of faces in the human funnel: two strange eyes, a quick glance, the brow, pupils, the eyelids? What was that? maybe your happiness in life... over, blown away, never again.
You walk a thousand streets all your life; you see in your walk those who forgot you. An eye beckons, the soul sounds; you hasten to find, only for seconds... Two strange eyes, a brief glance, the brow, pupils, the eyelids; What was that? no one turns back time... past, blown away, never again.
You have to wander through cities on your way; you see the other person's pulse for a moment. It can be an enemy, it can be a friend, it can be your comrade in battle. He looks over and passes by... Two strange eyes, a quick glance, the brow, the pupils, the eyelids. What was that? A piece of the great humanity! Gone, blown away, never again.
The pale death with his cold hand will at last stroke your breasts with time / The sweet coral of your lips will fade; The shoulders of warm snow will become cold sand /
The sweet lightning / the strength of your hand / For whom such falls / they will give way in time / The hair / the hair / can reach the shine of gold / Redeem at last day and year as a common bond.
The well-set foot / the lovely gestures / For no one sacrifices any more to the divinity of your splendour.
This and more than this must finally perish / Because nature made it of diamond.
Wonderful man who fled the city! Every murmur of the tree, every sound of the brook, every twinkling pebble, preach virtue and wisdom to him!
Every shady shrub is to him a holy temple, where his God wanders closer to him; every lawn an altar, where he kneels before the sublime.
His nightingale sounds slumber down on him, His nightingale wakes him up fluttering, When the lovely Frühhroth Through the Trees shines on his bed.
Then he admires you, God, in the morning corridor, in the rising splendour of your messenger, the glorious sun, you in the worm, and in the bud branch.
Rest in the blowing grass, when the coolness pours out, Or pour out the spring over the flowers; Drink the breath of the blossom, Drink the gentleness of the evening air.
His thatched roof, where the pigeons sunbathe, and play and jump, beckons to him sweet rest, As to the townspeople the gold hall, As the cushion of the townspeople.
And the playing troop whirrs down to him, cooing and whispering at him, flapping at him on the basket; pick crumbs and peas, pick grains out of his hand.
Lonely he often walks, full of thoughts of death, Through the graves of the village, dissects himself on a grave, And beholds the crosses, And the waving wreath of death.
Wonderful man who fled the city! Angels blessed him when he was born, and scattered flowers of heaven on the cradle of the child.
My heart was beating fast on horseback; it was done almost as soon as it was thought; the evening was already rocking the earth, and the night was hanging on the mountains. Already stood in the mist the oak A giant piled up, Where darkness looked out of the bushes With a hundred black eyes.
The moon from a hill of clouds looked miserably out of the fragrance; The winds swung softly wings whizzed eerily around my ear The night created a thousand monsters Yet fresh and joyful was my courage In my veins what fire! In my hearts what embers!
I saw you, and the gentle joy flowed from the sweet look at me; Whole was my heart at your side, And every breath for you. A pink spring weather surrounded the lovely face, And tenderness for me - you gods! I hope, I do not deserve it!
But, alas, with the morning sun, the farewell narrows my heart In your kisses what bliss! In your eye what pain! I went and you stood and looked at the earth and looked after me with a wet look: And yet what happiness to be loved! And love, gods, what happiness!
Spring shall delight and enchant me with sweet looks, summer shall entertain me with fruit and myrtle kingdom, gird me with joy.
Autumn, thou shalt teach me household, to be without, to covet, And thou shalt teach me winter to die, to perish, to inherit spring.
When the Ancient Holy Father With a serene hand From rolling clouds Sows Blessing Lightning Over the Earth I Kiss the last hem of his garment, Childish shivers Faithfully in the breast.
For no man shall measure himself against gods. If he lifts himself up and touches the stars with the crown of his head, the unstable soles will not stick anywhere, and clouds and winds will play with him.
If he stands with firm, marrow-like bones on the well-established Permanent Earth, he will not be able to compare Himself only with the oak or the vine.
What distinguishes gods from men? That many waves walk before them, An eternal stream: the wave lifts us, the wave swallows us, And we sink.
A small ring Limits our lives, And many genders line them constantly, To their existence Infinite Chain.
You, too, wanted more, but love forces all of us down, suffering bends more mightily, Yet Our bow does not return in vain from whence it comes.
Upward or downward! reigns in holy night, Where the mute nature meditates days, Does not a degree, a right still reign in the crooked orcus?
For never, like mortal masters, have you Celestials, All-Sustainers, that I should know, guided Me cautiously along the level path.
Let man test all things, say the heavenly ones, That he, nourished vigorously, may learn to thank for all things, And understand the freedom to set out wherever he will.
My often stormed ship, the fierce winds game, The naughty wave ball that almost separated the tide, That ran over cliff 'on cliff' and foam and sand, Arrives ahead of time 'Port that my soul wants.
Often, when black night fell upon us at noon, the speed of lightning burned the sails! How often have I misjudged the wind and north and south! How damaged is the mast, rudder, sword and keel.
Get out, you weary spirit; get out, we are in the land; and let go of anguish, and of bitter pain, and of grievous pain.
Ade, cursed world. You sea full of rough storms: And keep protection and peace, you eternal castle!
We have gone through adversity and joy hand in hand, from hiking we both now rest over the quiet land.
All around the valleys are sloping, the air is already darkening, two larks are only rising into the fragrance at night.
Step forward and let them buzz, Soon it is bedtime, lest we get lost in this solitude.
Oh further, quiet peace! So deep in the twilight, How are we weary of wandering? Is this death?
I went home and slept as if The Angels had cradled me. One rests in German beds so soft, Because these are feather beds.
How I often yearn for the sweetness of the patriotic feeling, When I lay on hard mattresses, In the sleepless night of exile!
You sleep very well and dream well in our duvets. Here the German soul feels free from all chains of earth.
She feels free and soars up to the highest heavenly realms. O German soul, how proud is your flight In your nighttime dreams!
The gods pale when you approach! You have plastered many a star on your ways with the flapping of your wings!
The land belongs to the French and the Russians, the sea belongs to the British, but in the air realm of the dream we possess the dominion undisputed.
Here we exercise hegemony, Here we are undivided; The other peoples have developed on flat ground.
And when I fell asleep, I dreamed, I strolled again in the bright moonlight along the echoing streets, In the ancient Cologne.
And behind me walked again My black, masked companion. I was so tired, my knees broke, But we always went on.
We went on. My heart in my chest was gaping open, and out of the wound of my heart the red drops glided.
Sometimes I dipped my fingers in it, and sometimes it happened that I painted the doorposts with the blood in passing.
And every time I marked a house in such a way, a death bell sounded far away, whimpering wistfully and softly.
In the sky, however, the moon was hereditary, It became more and more cloudy. Like black horses, the wild clouds chased past it.
And always walked behind me with his hidden hatchet The Dark Shape? so we wandered for a good while.
We go and go until we finally get back to the Cathedral Square; the gates were wide open there, We entered.
There was only death and night and silence in the vast space; traffic lights burned here and there to show the darkness right.
I walked along the pillars for a long time, and heard only the footsteps of my companion, who followed me every step of the way.
We finally came to a place where sparkling candlelight And sparkling gold and gemstone; That was the Three Kings Chapel.
The Magi, however, who otherwise lay there so still, O miracle! they now sat upright on their sarcophagi.
Three skeletons, fantastically cleaned, with crowns on the miserable yellowed skulls, they also carried The Sceptre in bony hands.
Like jumpers, they moved the longest-dead bones; they smelled of modernists and at the same time of incense.
One even moved his mouth and gave a speech, very long; He explained to me why He demanded my respect.
First because he was a dead man, and secondly because he was a king, and thirdly because he was a saviour? None of this moved me much.
I replied with a laugh: "Your efforts are in vain, I see that you belong to the past in every respect."
Fort! away from here! in the deep grave Is your natural place. Life is now taking possession of the treasures of this chapel.
The future merry cavalry shall dwell here in the Dome, And if ye will not give way willingly, I will use violence And let you lurk with butts!
So I spoke, and I turned round, and I saw the terrible blinking of the mute companion's terrible hatchet, and he understood my beckoning.
He approached, and with the axe he smashed the poor skeletons of superstition, he knocked you down.
The sound of the blows reverberated from all the vaults, terrible!? Streams of blood poured out of my chest, and I awoke suddenly.
Two sails illuminating The deep blue bay! Two sails swelling To calm escape!
As one arches and moves in the winds, so is the sensation of the other aroused.
Desires to hasten one, The other goes quickly, Desires to rest one, His companion also rests.
Your soul, which loves mine, is forfeited with her in carpet Tibet.
Beam after beam, colours in love, stars courting each other for heaven's sake.
Our feet rest on the preciousness, thousands upon thousands.
Sweet llama son on musk plant throne, And Wang's cheek colorful times already?
In Maienseeds the corpses lie narrow, In the green rain, on flowers, on their beds. Lost weapons, wheels without spokes, And overturned the iron carriages.
From many puddles the smoke of blood steams, Which black and red cover the brown dirt road. And whitish swells the belly of the dead horses, Which stretch their legs into the morning.
In the cool wind the whirring of the dying still freezes, as in the gates of the East a pale glow appears, a green glow, The thin band of the fleeting aurora
Potsdamer Platz in eternal roar Glaciers all echoing avalanches The road tracts: trams on iron rails, automobiles and human waste.
People run across the asphalt, ants busily, like lizards nimble. Forehead and hands, blinking with thoughts, swimming like sunlight through dark forest.
Night rain envelops the place in a cave, And purple jellyfish lie - colorful oils;
They multiply, they are cut in pieces by the chariots. By the smoke of the night, like pus of a pestilence.
At noon, the ravens rush over the black corner with a hard cry. Their shadow wanders past the hind. And sometimes you see them grumpily resting.
Oh how they disturb the brown silence, In which a field raptures, Like a woman who bewitches heavy foreboding, And sometimes you can hear her groaning
Around a carcass that they smell somewhere, And suddenly they direct the flight to the north And vanish like a corpse In the air that trembles with lust.
A strong wind leapt up. Open the bleeding gates of the iron sky. Strike the towers. Sounding loud and supple over the iron plain of the city. The morning sun sooty. Trains thunder on dams. Golden angel ploughs plough through clouds. Strong wind over the pale city. Steamers and cranes awaken at the filthy flowing stream. Annoyingly the bells knock at the weathered cathedral. You see many women and girls going to work. In the pale light. Wild from the night. Their skirts weave. Limbs created for love. Towards the machine and grumpy toil. Look into the tender light. In the trees tender green. Listen! The sparrows shrine. And outside in wilder fields larks sing.
When we march - step by step - We listen: our heart beats with us. My heart and your heart, comrade. In the same beat: soldier! soldier!
So row after row - step after step - columns stomp the same footstep. We sense it big, we pray it already: This is the pulse of the nation.
As we march - step by step - in our blood, all the fathers, all the grandchildren, march with us: in the eternal pulse of the nation.
Soldier! Soldier! So step by step. Hear Germany, how she fought and suffered! Hear Germany, how she draws eternally, The best blood, into the heroic song!
Because love is nothing more / than a boatload / The ship is our heart / The ropes come with the confusion of senses. The sea is our life / The waves of love are the fear / in which we float /
The sails / where the desires wind blows / Is the thought cloth. Desire / hope are the anchors. The magnet is beauty. Our vortex are Bathseben. The wine and abundance the packs.
The star / to which one steers the stiff sails / Is a befuddled mouth. The port / where one thinks / Is a beautiful woman. The shores are the breasts. The approach is a kiss. The purpose / sweet lusts.
But if here is clouded / by blind burning smoke The sun of reason / the shipwreck also follows The destruction of the soul / And the destruction of the body: For beyde the lust of a woman kills us.
Heart, my heart, what shall this give you? Why is it so distressing to you? What a strange new life! I do not recognize you any more. Away is all that you loved, way why you were afflicted, way is your diligence and your rest? Oh, how did you come to this!
Does the blossom of youth bind you, This lovely figure, This gaze full of faithfulness and goodness With infinite force? Will I quickly withdraw from it, empower myself, escape it, Lead me in the moment, Oh, my way back to it.
And on this magic thread, which cannot be torn, the dear loose girl holds Me so against her will; must now live in her magic circle in her own way. The change, oh, how great! Love! Love! Let me go!
Take the world! <unk> called out Zeus from his heights to the people. <unk> Take it, let it be yours! I give it to you as an inheritance and as a fief - but share in it brotherly.
That which has hands hurries to arrange itself. It was busy, young and old. The farmer reached for the fruits of the field, The junkie birdied through the forest.
The merchant takes what his storehouses hold, The abbot chooses the noble firn, The king closes the bridges and the streets, And said, The tithe is mine.
Very late, after the division had long since taken place, the poet approached, he came from far away - oh! there was nothing left to see everywhere, And everything had its master!
Woe unto me! shall I alone be forgotten of all, I thy faithful son? And he uttered a cry, and fell down before the throne of Jovi.
<unk> If you're in the land of dreams, God forbid, <unk> don't mess with me, where were you when the world was divided? <unk> I was <unk>, 'the poet told <unk>.
My eye clung to your face, my ear to your heavens - forgive the spirit who, intoxicated by your light, lost the earthly.
<unk> speaks to Zeus, <unk> the world is gone, autumn, hunting, the market is no longer mine. Do you want to live in my heaven with me - as often as you come, it should be open to you.
Joy was in the halls of Troy, Eh the high feast fell; Hymns of exultation are heard In the strings golden play; All hands rest weary From the tearful strife, Because the glorious Pelide marries Priam's beautiful daughter.
And adorned with laurel vines, Shaar wallows upon Shaar, To the altar of the Thymbrian, To the gods of the holy houses. Thumbingly roaring through the streets rolls the Bacchanalian lust, And in their sorrow was left but a sad breast.
Joyless in the fullness of joy, Unsociable and alone, Cassandra walked silently in Apollo's laurel grove. In the deepest depths of the forest fled the visionary, And she threw the bandage to the earth in anger:
Everything is open to joy, All hearts are happy, And the old parents hope, And the sister is adorned. I alone must mourn lonely, For sweet delusion flees me, And winged upon these walls I behold destruction.
I see a torch glowing, But not in Hymen's hand; I see the clouds going, But not like a sacrificial burn. I see festivals preparing joyfully, But in the foreboding spirit I already hear the steps of the God Who tears them apart pitifully.
And they rebuke my lamentations, And they reproach my sorrow. Lonely in the wilderness must I carry my tormented heart, Shunned by the happy, And derided by the joyful! Thou hast given me a heavy burden, O Pythian, thou wicked God.
Why have you sent me to the city of the eternally blind, with an open mind? Why have you made me see what I cannot turn back? The doomed thing must come to pass, the dreaded thing must come near.
Is it good to lift the veil, Where the near terror threatens? Only error is life, And knowledge is death. Take, O take away the sad clarity, the blood-stained appearance from My eye! Terrible it is to be a mortal vessel of your truth.
My blindness give me again And the joyful dark sense! I never sang joyful songs, Since I am your voice. You have given me the future, But you took the moment, Took the hour joyfully life - Take back your false gift!
Always with the ornaments of the brides, I crown my fragrant hair, Ever since I consecrated myself to your service at the sad altar. My youth was but weeping, And I knew only the pain, Every bitter distress of My beating to my sensitive heart.
I see joyfully the companions, everything around me lives and loves feelings of pleasure in my youth, but my heart is clouded. To me the Lenz appears in vain, Who adorns the earth festively; Who delights in life, Who looks into its depths!
Blessed do I praise Polyxenes In the drunken delusion of the heart, For the best of the Hellenes she hopes to embrace bridegroom. Pride is lifted up her breast, Her bliss can hardly contain her, Not you, Heavenly ones up there, Envy her in her dream.
And I, too, have seen him, Whom the heart desires to choose! His beautiful looks beseech, animated by love Gluth. I would gladly move with my husband into the home; But a stylistic shadow comes nightly between me and him.
Their pale larvae all send me Proserpina; Wherever I wander, wherever I wallow, the spirits stand there for me. In the youth joyful games they intrude cruelly, A dreadful tumult! I can never be merry.
s eye glows; Not to the right hand, not to the left Can I flee from terror; I may not turn my gaze, Knowing, Seeing, I must complete my fate Falling in a foreign land,
And their words still resound - the sound of confusion comes from far away from the gate of the temple, Todt lay Thetis "great son! Eris shakes her serpents, All the gods flee away, And the clouds of thunder hang heavy on Ilion.
As it was morning outside, a girl stood by the window, combing her long hair, wiping her eyes clear.
Singing birds of all kinds, sunshine plays in front of the house, outside over the beautiful garden clouds fly far out.
And she stretches into the morning, as if she were still sleepy, Oh, she was so full of sorrow, braiding her hair and singing:
? Like a bird bright and pure, goes outside muntre love, lures out to the sunshine, Oh, who stayed there at home?!?
I wander through the silent night, Since the moon creeps so secretly gently often out of the dark cloud cover, And back and forth in the valley awakens the nightingale, Then again everything gray and still.
O marvellous song of the night: From afar in the land of the rivers aisle, quiet showers in the dark trees - Confuse the thoughts to me, My crazy singing here is like a call only from dreams.
It was as if 'Heaven had silently kissed the earth, that she must now dream of it in the glimmer of blossom'.
The air went through the fields, The ears of corn gently billowed, The woods rustled softly, So starry was the night.
And my soul spread forth her wings; she flew through the quiet lands, as if she were flying home.
What are we human beings! A dwelling house of grim pain. A ball of false happiness, a false light of this time, a scene of bitter fear, occupied with sharp suffering. Soon melted snow and burnt candles.
This life flees from it like a gossip and a joke. Those who have laid aside before us the garment of the weak body, and are long since inscribed in the Book of the Dead of great mortality, are from our minds and hearts.
Just as a vain dream easily falls out of sight, so must our name, praise, honor, and glory disappear.
What takes your breath must escape with the air; what do I say? we pass away like smoke from strong winds.
In the dark eye no tear You sit at the loom and gnash your teeth: Germany, we weave your shroud, We weave into it the threefold curse - We weave, we weave!
A curse to God, to whom we prayed In winter coldness and famine; We have hoped and waited in vain, He has apprehended us and fed us and fooled us - We weave, we weave!
A curse to the king, the king of the rich, Whom our misery could not soften, Who extorted the last penny from us, And made us shoot like dogs - We weave, we weave!
A curse to the false fatherland, We only prosper ignominy and shame, Where every flower is kinked early, Where rottenness and rottenness refreshes the worm - We weave, we weave!
The little ship flies, the loom crashes, We weave diligently day and night - Old Germany, we weave your shroud, We weave into it the threefold curse, We weave, we weave!
It drifts past me in the sea of the city. One by one, one by one. A glance in the eye, and already over. The organ-turner turns his song.
It drips past me into the sea of nothingness. One by one, one by one. A glance at his coffin, already over. The organ-turner turns his song.
A funeral procession floats in the sea of the city, people cross the road, one after the other. A glance at my coffin, already over. The organ-turner turns his song.
How shall I hold my soul, lest it touch yours? How shall I lift it above you to other things? Oh, I would like to place it in the darkness with something lost, in a strange quiet place, which does not resonate when your depths vibrate; but everything that touches us, you and me, gathers us together like a bow drawing a voice from two strings. On which instrument are we curious? And which player has us in his hand? O sweet song.
My daily routine is: kneeling in a narrow boiler pipe under a small glow, pounding on rivets, sweating in the heat, sooty eyes and hair and ears.
As if I were just a little flapping motor, I let my arms sprinkle, the glowing air stings as if with poisonous spikes; the sweat breaks out again and again...
O man! Where are you? Like a beetle iron armor you in closing tangle.
The soul races in the eye, poor and wandering. To earth, man, and light. So cry, man in iron!
Tarred barrels rolled from the thresholds of dark barges on high barges. Tugs pulled on. A smoke mane hung sooty on oily waves.
Two steamers came with bands. They cut the chimney at the bridge arch. Smoke, soot, stench lay on the filthy waves of the tanneries with the brown skins.
In all the bridges, below us the Zille grows as in drums in silence.
We let go and drifted in the canal Sahn we the giant vents night fanale.
Heaven flows in channels of stone; For all the streets are hewn out into channels, full of the blue of heaven; And domes are like buoys, vents like stakes
In the water. Black food vapours smoulder And are to be looked at like aquatic plants. The lives, which accumulate at the very bottom, begin to tell gently from the sky,
Narrow, untangled to blue melodies, it stirs the will and mind of the water
In the dunes, coming, walking, gliding, pulling. In the lime play of the big wave hand.
In the courtyard, bewitched by milky twilight, soft sick glide through autumn tanned. Her waxy-round gaze reflects golden times, filled with reverie and rest and wine.
The stars spread white sadness. In the grey, filled with deception and ringing, behold how the terrible are scattered in confusion.
Shameless mockingbirds scurry, mournful shadows cower on the walls.
The others flee through darkened arcades; the starry wind, like raging maenads.
The darkness rustles like a garment, The trees stagger at the edge of the sky.
Save yourself in the heart of the night, quickly bury yourself in the darkness, as in honeycombs. Make yourself small, get out of your bed.
Something wants over the bridges, The stars frightened so white.
And the moon like an old man with a humped back.
A white bird is the big sky. The houses are half-dead old people.
Griesgrämig a thin Droschkenschimmel stares. At sharp corners their skins squeak.
In a street a lunatic groans: You, oh, you? A crowd around him marvels and grins with derision.
Three little people playing blind cow? The afternoon, a gently weeping god.
In the black mirror of the canals the colorful chain of lights of the factories twitches. The low streets are suffocated with smoke, which a gust of wind ducks down.
A group of people, hardened by the merry-go-round, stagger silently into the poor cabins; while in the smoky canteens the great youth make a fuzzy noise.
Once again the wire rope pulls with screeching terrain, inside the sulphur swamp goes out.
Far be it from yawning, hissing with steam, and waiting for the wind to tear the heavens to pieces.
From all corners of the earth, fear shrieks, life whips, death gaspes, the heavens shreds. Blind woman slaughters wildly for horror.
Windows stand close together like the holes in a sieve, houses huddle together so tightly that the streets are swollen with gray like strangled people.
Sitting in the trams tightly hooked into each other, the two facades people, their close looks bathe in each other, questioned without shyness.
Our walls are as thin as skin, our whispers, our thoughts... become growls...
- And how still in a thickly locked cave everyone stands far away and feels: alone
I found her in the spring shade; she didn't feel it, and slumbered.
I looked at you; my life hung in the balance, and I didn't know it.
But when I listened to her speechless, she woke up from her slumber.
She looked at me; her life hung in the balance.
How gloriously does nature shine to Me! How shines the sun! How laughs the corridor!
Blossoms from every branch and a thousand voices from the bush
And joy and delight from every breast. O earth, O sun, O happiness, O lust,
O love, O love, As golden beautiful as morning clouds On those heights,
You gloriously bless The Fresh Field - In the Flower Steam The Full World!
O girl, girl, how I love you! How your eye flashes, how you love me!
So the lark loves song and air, And morning flowers the scent of heaven,
As I love you with warm blood, who you gave me youth and joy and courage
To new songs and dances. Be eternally happy, As you love me.
To the snow, to the rain, to the wind, in the steam of the gorges, through the scents of mist, always to! Always to! Without rest and rest!
I would rather fight my way through suffering, that is, endure so many joys of life. All the inclination from the heart to the heart, oh, how self-inflicted that creates pain!
How - shall I flee? Move into the woods? All in vain! Crown of life, happiness without rest, love, you are!
You who are from heaven, who satisfy all joy and pain, who fill Him who is doubly miserable, doubly with refreshment; Oh, I am tired of driving! What is the point of all the torment and lust? Sweet peace, come, oh come into my breast!
I think of yours when the sun shines from the sea; I think of yours when the moon's flicker paints itself in springs.
I see thee when the dust lifts in the far way; In the deep night, when the walker trembles on the narrow walkway.
I hear you when the wave rises there with a dull noise. In the quiet grove I often go to listen, When everything is silent.
I am with you; no matter how far away you are, you are close to me. The sun is setting, soon the stars are shining on me. Oh, if you were there!
In front of his Lion Garden, awaiting the fighting game, sat King Francis, And around him the great ones of the crown, And all around on high balconies The ladies in beautiful wreath.
And as he beckons with his finger, On opens the wide kennel, And into it with deliberate step A lion steps, And looks around silently, With a long yawn, And shakes his mane, And stretches out his limbs, And lays down.
And the King beckons again, Then a second gate opens nimbly, Out of it a tiger runs with a wild leap, As he beholds the lion, he roars loudly, Strikes with his tail a terrible frost, And sticks out his tongue, And in a circle shyly he bypasses the Leu, purring fiercely; Then he stretches down to the side, grumbling.
And the King beckons again, Then the double-opened house spews out Two leopards at once, They rush with courageous desire to fight On the tiger, That grabs them with his grim paws, And the Leu with roar straightens up, there it becomes quiet, And around in circles, Hot of murder, Camp the horrible cats.
Since falls from the edge of the Altans A glove of beautiful hand Between the tiger and the Leun in the middle.
And to Knight Delorges, mockingly, Miss Kunigund turns: "Mr Knight, if your love is so hot, as you swear to me every hour, egg, lift up my glove."
And the knight in rapid run descends into the terrible kennel With firm steps, And from the midst of the monsters he takes the glove with a perky finger.
And with astonishment and horror the knights and noblewomen see, And calmly he brings back the glove. Then his praise resounds from every mouth, But with a tender look of love? He promises him his near happiness? Receives him Miss Kunigunde. And he throws the glove in her face: <unk> The thanks, lady, I do not desire <unk>, And leaves her at the same hour.
When the sun has gone, darkness comes, sunset has golden cheeks, and the night has mourning.
Since love left, I am now a carrot child, and the red cheeks are dark and lost.
Darkness must conceal deeply all woe, all lust; but the moon and the stars show what dwells in my breast.
When your lips are silent, your eyes and your tears must show how love never rests.
A kiss has breathed life into me, the deepest languishing of my bosom, Come, darkness! to look around me, That new bliss sucks my lips.
Such life was immersed in dreams, so I live to contemplate dreams eternally, Can despise all other pleasures, Because only the night breathes such sweet balm.
The day is sparse with sweet delights, It pains me the vain pangs of its light, And the embers of its sun consume me me. Therefore hide thyself from the splendour of errant suns! Shroud thyself in the night, it satisfies thy desire, And heals the pain, like Lethe's cool floods.
Gone is the light day, From afar comes the sound of the bells; Thus time travels all night, taking with it some who have not thought it.
Where then is the colorful lust, the comfort of a friend, and the faithful breast, the sweet sight of a woman? Will no one be merry with me?
There is now so silence in the world, clouds draw lonely over the field, And field and tree discuss? O son of man, what shudders thee?
No matter how far the false world may be, One remains faithful to me, Who weeps with me, Who watches with me, If only I thought of him correctly.
Fresh up then, dear nightingale, Thou waterfall with bright sound! Let us praise God united, Until the bright morning shines!
It is already late, it is already getting cold, What are you riding? Are you riding alone through the forest? The forest is long, you are alone, you beautiful bride! I am taking you home!
? Great is the deceit and cunning of men. My heart is broken with pain. Well, the French horn is wandering here and there, O flee! You do not know who I am.
So richly adorned is the horse and the woman, so beautiful is the young body, Now do I know thee? God help me! Thou art the witch Lorelei.
? You know me well? from high stone Look silently at my castle deep into the Rhine. It is already late, it is already getting cold, never come out of this forest!?
My heart, my heart is sad, but May shines merrily; I stand, leaning on the linden tree, high on the old bastion.
Down there flows the blue moat in quiet rest; A boy rides in a barge, And fishes and whistles to it.
Beyond rise kindly, In tiny, colorful form, pleasure houses, and gardens, and people, And oxen, and meadows, and forest.
The maids bleach laundry, And leap about in the grass; The mill wheel dusts diamonds, I hear its distant hum.
At the old grey towers A sign house stands; A red-skinned lad goes up and down there.
He plays with his shotgun, which sparkles in the sunshine, He presents and shoulders - I want him to shoot me dead.
The night rose serenely to the land, leaning dreaming against the mountain wall, Her eye now sees the golden scales of time resting still in the same bowls; And the springs rushing boldly forth, They sing to the mother, the night, in the ear Of the day, Of the day that has been today.
The ancient lullaby, She does not pay attention to it, she is tired of it; The blue of the sky sounds sweeter still, The yoke of fleeing hours evenly swung. But always the springs keep the word, The waters still sing away in their sleep Of the day, Of the day that has been today.
Heart, my heart, why so joyful, so full of restlessness and scattered, As if the beautiful spring season had come upon the mountains?
Because a dear girl presses warmly to your heart again, you look cheerfully up and down, earth and heaven refresh you.
And I have the windows open, New move into the world Old fear, old hope! Spring, spring it shall be!
I can't stay still here any more, a song wanders through my chest, But it's too light for me to write, And I'm so glad confused.
So I walk through the streets, people go here and there, I don't know what I'm doing, I'm just so happy.
In his garden he walks alone; in all the trees he burrows again and again the single name, and in the name his songs lament.
Softly blue sky, mild roses weave Summer time through masses of leaves. He does not see them; the time in which he lives is old, withered, long since abandoned by all.
We sleep as Brutus slept - but he awoke and pierced the cold knife deep into Caesar's chest! The Romans were tyrant eaters.
We are not Romans, we smoke tobacco. Every people has its taste, every people has its size. In Swabia, one cooks the best dumplings.
We are Teutons, cozy and well-behaved, We sleep healthy plant sleep, And when we awake, we thirst, Yet not for the blood of our princes.
We are as faithful as oak, also lime wood, of which we are proud; In the land of oaks and lime trees there will never be a Brutus.
And if Brutus were among us, he would never find Caesar, he would seek Caesar in vain; We have good gingerbread.
We have thirty-six Lord (Is not too much!), and each one carries a star protectively on his heart, And he need not fear the Ides of March.
We call them fathers, and fatherland let us call that land which belongs hereditarily to the princes; We also love sauerkraut with sausages.
When our father goes for a walk, we take our hat off with piety; Germany, the pious nursery, is not a Roman murder pit.
On the gray beach, on the gray sea, And on the side lies the city; The fog weighs heavily on the roofs, And through the silence the sea roars monotonously around the city.
There is no forest rustling, there is no bird beating ceaselessly in May; the wandering goose with a hard cry Only flies by in autumn night, the grass blows on the beach.
But my whole heart is upon you, O gray city by the sea. The magic of youth from generation to generation rests upon you, O gray city by the sea.
I am, I do not know how, I sigh from generation to generation. I weep day and night; I sit in a thousand sorrows; and I fear a thousand more; the strength in my heart disappears, the spirit faints, my hands sink.
The cheeks turn pale, the bright eyes are like the light of burnt candles. The soul is stormed, like the sea in March. What is this life, what are we, me and you?
What do we imagine, what do we wish to have? Now flowers, tomorrow excrement. We are a wind, a foam,
A mist and a brook, a frost, a dew, a shadow; As a dream mixed with bitter anguish.
John Maynard! "Who is John Maynard?" "John Maynard was our helmsman, he endured until he won the shore, he saved us, he wears the crown, he died for us, our love his reward. John Maynard."
The "swallow" flies over Lake Erie, spray foams around the bow like flakes of snow; from Detroit it flies to Buffalo - but the hearts are free and happy, and the passengers with children and women are already looking at the shore in the twilight, and chatting to John Maynard everything comes up: "How far still, helmsman?" He looks forward and looks around: "Thirty minutes left... half an hour."
All hearts are happy, all hearts are free - it sounds like a scream from the ship's room, "Fire!" was what it sounded like, a smoke from the cabin and hatch penetrated, a smoke, then flames blazing, and twenty minutes to Buffalo.
And the passengers, huddled together at the bowsprit, still have air and light at the bowsprit in front, but at the steering wheel it's crowded, and a wail goes up: "Where are we? where?" And fifteen minutes to Buffalo.
The draught grows, but the cloud of smoke stands, the captain peeks behind the steering wheel, he no longer sees his helmsman, but through the mouthpiece he asks: "Still there, John Maynard?" "Yes, sir. I am."
"On the beach! Into the surf!" "I hold on to it." And the people of the ship cheer: "Stop! Hello!" And another ten minutes to Buffalo. - -
"Still there, John Maynard?" And the answer rings out in a dying voice: "Yes, Lord, I hold it!" And into the surf, what a cliff, what a rock, he chases the "swallow" right into the middle of it. If rescue is to come, it only comes like this. Rescue: the beach of Buffalo!
The ship burst, the fire vanishes, everyone is saved, only one is missing!
All the bells go; their tones swell skyward from churches and chapels, a ringing and ringing, otherwise the city is silent, a service only it has today: ten thousand follow or more, and no eye in the course, the tears empty.
They let the coffin down in flowers, they close the tomb with flowers, and with golden writing in the marble stone the city inscribes its thanks:
"Here rests John Maynard! In smoke and fire he held the steering wheel firmly in his hand, he saved us, he wears the crown, he died for us, our love his reward. John Maynard."
The crows shrine And fly to the city: Soon it will be snowing, - Blessed is he who still has - home!
Now you stand rigid, look backwards, oh, how long ago! What fool did you escape into the world before winter?
The world - a gateway to a thousand deserts dumb and cold! Whoever lost what you lost will not stop anywhere.
Now you stand pale, cursed to winter wanderings, like the smoke that always searches for colder skies.
Fly, bird, snore your song in the sound of a desert bird! - Hide, you fool, your bleeding heart in ice and mockery!
The crows shrine and fly to the city: Soon it will be snowing, - Woe to him who has no home!
Do not give way to happiness, do not give way to envy, do not take pleasure in yourself, and do not take heed of sorrow. Happiness, place, and time have conspired against you.
Let all that grieves you and refreshes you be chosen; accept your doom. Let all things be unrepentant. Do what must be done, and before you are commanded. Whatever you can hope for, it will always be born.
Why lament, and why praise? His calamity and his happiness are all in thee: put away thy vain delusion.
and before thou goest forth, go back into thyself. To him is the wide world and all things subject.
Dô Friderich ûz Osterrîch as sô gewarp, that he froze at the sêle genas and in the lîp, dô fuort he mînen krenechen tret into the earth, Dô gienc i slîchent as a path, swar i gie, daz houbet i hang nider unz ûf mîniu kneel, nû riht i ez ûf nâch become fuller: i am wol ze fiure komen, me hât daz rîche and ouch diu krône per se, wol ûf, swer dance welle nâch der gîgen! me is mîner swære buoz, êrste wil i just want to sit down înen fuoz and sit down in a hôhôte.
Do you see the city resting over there, whispering into the garment of the night? The moon of silk pours down upon it in magical splendor.
The balmy night wind blows her breath, so ghostly, extinguishingly quiet sound: she cries in a dream, she breathes deeply and heavily, she lisps, enigmatically, temptingly bang...
The dark city, it sleeps in my heart With splendor and glow, with agonizingly colorful splendor: But flattering floats around you its reflection, subdued to whisper, gliding through the night.
The wandering wind on the paths was filled with sweet sound, the dawning trickling rain was damp with desire.
The flowing rushing water intoxicated the voices of dreams, the paler and paler blurred in the floating mist.
The wind in the blowing pastures, By the water the wandering wind intoxicated the longing sufferings that are in the twilight.
The way in the twilight pangs, He led to no goal, Yet he was good to go In the rain that fell trickling.
Man, the play of time, plays, because he lives here in the scene of this world; he sits, but not firm; he rises, and he falls, he seeks the palaces, and he seeks a bad roof; he rules, and he weaves.
That which was yesterday is gone; that which raises happiness shall perish tomorrow; the green branches which were before are now dry and dead; we poor are but guests, whether a sharp sword of delicate silk hovers over them.
We are the same in the flesh, but not of the same state: until death makes us the same after we have been robbed of our jewellery.
Play this serious game, because time still suffers, that crown, wisdom, strength and good are an empty splendor!
We know nothing of this going that does not share with us. We have no reason to show admiration and love or hatred to the death that a masked mouth
The world is still full of roles that we play. As long as we care whether we like it or not, death also plays, even though it doesn't like it.
But as you walked, a strip of reality broke into this stage through the gap through which you walked: green, real green, real sunshine, real forest.
We continue to play. Bang and hard-to-learn reciting and repeating gestures from time to time; but your being removed from us, removed from our piece, can
sometimes come upon us, like a knowledge of that reality descending, so that we play life for a while rapturously, not thinking of applause.
Under Turkish lime trees that bloom, on the edges of lawns, in stands swayed softly by their homesickness, the macaws breathe and know about their countries, which, even if they do not look, do not change.
Stranger in the busy green like a parade, they adorn themselves and feel too sorry for themselves, and with the precious beaks of jasper and jade they chew grey, throw it away, find it bland.
Down below, the dusty pigeons steal what they don't like, between the two almost empty wasted troughs.
But then they sway again, sleeping and eyeing, scattered by the shackles. Waiting for witnesses.
The eternal multitude now wants to close its light; Diana stands pale; the dawn laughs at the grey sky, the gentle wind awakens, and excites the feathers to greet the new day.
The life of this world is already hastening to kiss the world, And sticks its head up; one sees the splendor of the rays Now twinkling on the sea. Oh thrice supreme power! Enlighten him who now bows before your feet!
Drive away the thick night that surrounds my soul, refresh my mind and strengthen my confidence.
Grant that I alone may see this day in thy service, that I may see thee, my sun, my light, for ever.
He rose, who slept for a long time, rose from the vaults deep below. In the dusk he stands, tall and unrecognized, And crushes the moon in his black hand.
In the evening noise of the cities it falls far, frost and shadow of a strange darkness, And the markets round vortex falters to ice. It becomes quiet. They look around. And no one knows.
In the alleys her shoulder grasps it easily. A question. No answer. A face pales. In the distance a ringing whimperes thin And the beards tremble around her pointed chin.
On the mountains he begins to dance. And he cries out, All of you warriors, up and on. And when he waves his black head, a loud chain hangs from a thousand skulls.
Like a tower he steps out of the last embers. Where the day flees, the streams are already full of blood. Countless corpses are already stretched out in the reeds, covered white with birds strong in death.
Above round walls of blue flames he stands, above black alleys the sound of weapons. Over gates where the guards lie across, Over bridges heavy with mountains of the dead.
In the night he chases the fire cross-country a red dog with wild mouths shrine. Out of the darkness of the nights black world springs, its edge is terribly illuminated by volcanoes.
And with a thousand red caps, the dark plains are strewn with flickering light, And what swarms in the streets below, He sweeps into the heaps of fire, that the flame may burn more.
And the flames devour burning forest after forest, yellow bats clawed into the leaves, and he hews his rod like a charcoal-burner into the trees, so that the fire roars right.
A great city was engulfed in yellow smoke, throwing itself silently into the abyss belly. But huge above glowing debris stands He who turns his torch three times in the wild sky,
Above storm-shredded clouds reflection, In the dead darkness of the cold desert, That he withered with the fire far into the night, pitch and fire dripping down on Gomorrah.
They wander through the night of the cities, The black crouching under their feet. Like skipper beards stand around their chin The clouds black from smoke and coal soot.
Its long shadow sways in the sea of houses and extinguishes rows of lights in the streets. It crawls heavy like fog on the pavement and slowly gropes forward house by house.
Put one foot on a square, kneel the other on a tower, raise them up where the rain falls black, blowing panpipes into the storm of clouds.
Around her feet circles the Ritornell Of The Sea Of Cities with sad music, A Great Song Of Death. Sometimes dull, sometimes garish, the sound that rose into the darkness changes.
They wander by the stream, which is black and wide, like a reptile, its back yellow speckled by the lanterns, rolling sadly into the darkness that covers the sky in black.
They lean heavily on a bridge wall, and stick their hands out into the swarm of men, like fauna drilling their arms into the mud at the edge of the swamps.
One gets up. He hangs a black larva in front of the white moon. Night, which descends like lead from the dark sky, pushes the houses deep into the shaft of darkness.
The city's shoulders crack, and a roof bursts, and a red fire bursts out of it. They sit wide-legged on its ridge, and shrine like cats to the firmament.
In a room full of darkness, a woman who has given birth cries out in pain. Her strong body protrudes from the pillows, around which the great devils stand.
She holds herself trembling on the bench. The room sways around her from her cry, Then comes the fruit. Her womb gapes red and long, And bleeding it tears in two from the fruit.
The devil's necks grow like giraffes. The child has no head. The mother holds it in front of her. Frog fingers gape in her back when she falls backwards.
But the demons grow gigantic. Their temple horn tears the sky red. Earthquakes thunder through the cities lap Around their hoof, the fire overburns.
Sun, thin and timid in autumn, And the fruit falls from the trees. Silence dwells in blue rooms A long afternoon.
Death sounds of metal; And a white animal breaks down. Brown girl rough songs Are blown away in the fall of leaves.
Forehead of God dreams colors, senses of madness gentle wings. Shadows turn on the hill Black fringed by decay.
Twilight full of rest and wine; sad guitars flow. And to the mild lamp inside you return as in a dream.
It is a light which the wind has extinguished. It is a heather jug which a drunk leaves in the afternoon. It is a vineyard, burnt and black with holes full of spiders. It is a room which they have whitewashed with milk. The madman has died. It is an island of the South Sea to receive The Sun God. One stirs the drums. The men perform martial dances. The women cradle their hips in creepers and fireflowers, When the sea sings. O our lost paradise.
The nymphs have left the golden forests, the stranger is buried, and then a flickering rain begins. Pan's son appears in the form of an earthworker, who sleeps on the glowing asphalt at noon. There are little girls in a courtyard in dresses full of heart-rending poverty. They are rooms filled with chords and sonatas. They are shadows hugging each other in front of a blind mirror. Convalescents are warming up at the windows of the hospital. A white steamer by the canal carries up bloody plagues.
s evil dreams. Resting in the hazel bushes she plays with his shadows. The student, perhaps a doppelganger, looks at her for a long time from the window. Behind him stands his dead brother, or he goes down the old spiral staircase. In the darkness of brown chestnuts the figure of the young novice fades. The garden is in the evening. In the cloister the bats flutter around. The children of the caretaker stop playing and look for the gold of the sky. End chords of a quartet. The little blind woman walks trembling through the alley, And later her shadow gropes along cold walls, surrounded by fairy tales and sacred legends.
It is an empty boat that floats down the black channel in the evening. In the gloom of the old asylum, human ruins decay. The dead orphans lie on the garden wall. Angels with flecked wings emerge from grey rooms. Worms drip from their yellowed eyelids. The place in front of the church is dark and silent, as in the days of childhood. On silver soles, past lives glide by. And the shadows of the damned descend to the sighing waters. In his tomb, the white magician plays with his serpents. Silently above the place of the skull, God's golden eyes open.
The field glows white and cold, the sky is lonely and monstrous, jackdaws circle over the pond, and hunters descend from the forest.
A silence dwells in black tops. A light of fire scurries from the huts. Sometimes a sleigh rings very far away And slowly the grey moon rises.
A game bleeds gently on the rain and ravens ripple in bloody pours. The pipe shakes yellow and shot up. Frost, smoke, a step in the empty grove.
I let my face fall on stars, which limp apart as if struck. The forests wander moonward, black jellyfish, into the blue sea, from which my gaze beckons.
My ego is gone. It makes the starry journey. It is not I from which the clothes shine. Days die away, the white old men. Selfless nerves are full of fear and cry.
Through the bushes winding stars eyes dive blaken sink whispers rippling blossoms hear scents splash showers rush winds rapid bounce swell cloths tear traps frightens into deep night.
The stones enemy windows grins betrayal branches choke mountains shrubs leaf rustling death.
Under the lime trees At the heath There our two beds were. There we mugt both broken flowers and grass, in front of the forest in a valley. Tandaradei, schône sanc diu nahtegal.
I came gone Zuo der Ouwe: Dô was mîn friedel komen ê Dá I was received, hêre frouwe daz I am saelic iemer mê. Did he kiss me? Wol tûsentstunt: Tandaradei, see how rôt me is the unt.
Do het he made Alsô rîche Of flowers a bed stat. The host still laughed Innecliche, kumt iemen an daz same pfat. Bî den rôsen er wol mac Tandaradei, memorize wâ mirz houbet lac.
Daz er bi me lie, wessez iemen (no enwelle got!), sô I am ashamed. Whoever he ploughs with me, nobody bevinde daz wan er and I - and a kleinez vogellîn tandaradei, daz mac wol getriuwe sin.
Hail, Cronus! Away the rattling trot! The way glides downhill; disgusting vertigo hesitates before the forehead of your haulers. Fresh the bumpy stick, roots, stones the trot Fast into life!
Now again the breathing step laboriously up the mountain. Up then, not sluggish then! Striving and hoping.
Far, high, glorious the view into life; From birth to birth, over the eternal spirit of eternal life.
Sideways of the canopy Shade attracts thee And the refreshing gaze On the threshold of the maiden there. Refresh thyself!? Me too, maiden, That foaming drink And the friendly health gaze!
From then on, fresher down! Behold, the sun sinks! Eh, it sinks, eh, old men grasp me in the scent of mist, toothed jaws rattle, And the loosening bones?.
Drunk with the last ray tear me away, a sea of fire in the foaming eye, blinded me, staggering in hell at night gate.
Sounds, brother-in-law, your horn, rattle the resounding trot, That the hurricane may hear: a prince cometh, and the mighty shall lift themselves up from their seats.
Once upon a time there was a king in Thule, faithful to the grave, to Whom dying his lover gave a golden cup.
He did not care, He emptied him of every feast; His eyes went over him as often as he drank from it.
And when he came to die, he counted his city in the kingdom, and granted it all to his heirs, not the cup at the same time.
He sat at the royal banquet, The knights around him, On high fathers "hall There on the castle by the sea.
There stood the old draughtsman, drinking the last glow of life, and throwing the holy cup down into the flood.
He saw him fall, drink, and sink deep into the sea. His eyes would sink, never drink a drop more.
Fill bush and valley still with mist, finally loosen My soul completely;
Widest over my field, Soothing thy gaze, As the friend's eye mild About my destiny.
Each echo makes my heart feel happy and sad, shifting between joy and pain in loneliness.
Flow, flow, dear river! I will never be glad; So joking and kissing, And so faithfulness.
I once possessed it, What is so delicious! That one never forgets it to his torment!
Rustle, river, along the valley, without rest and rest, rustle, whisper melodies to my singing!
If you swell furiously in the winter night or swell around the spring language of young buds.
Blessed is he who closes himself to the world without hatred, holds a friend by his bosom, and enjoys with him,
What, not known or not considered by people, Walks through the maze of the chest at night.
Who rides so late through night and wind? It is the father with his child; He has the boy in his arms, He holds him securely, He keeps him warm.
My son, why do you hide your face so anxiously? Do you not see the king of the alder? The king of the alder with crown and tail? My son, it is a mist.
"Dear child, come, go with me! I play beautiful games with you; there are many colourful flowers on the beach, My mother has many a golden robe."
My father, my father, and dost thou not hear what the king of the alder softly promises me? Be quiet, be quiet, my child; the wind whispers in dry leaves.
"Will you go with me, O boy? My daughters shall wait for you beautifully. My daughters shall lead the line at night. And they shall cradle and dance and sing to you."
My father, my father, and do you not see there the daughters of Erlkönig in a dark place? My son, my son, I see it very clearly: the old pastures seem so gray.
"I love you; I am moved by your beautiful countenance; and if you are not willing, I use violence." My father, my father, now he touches me! The King of the Saviors has grieved me.
The father is horrified, he rides swiftly, He holds the groaning child in his arms, reaches the court with difficulty and difficulty; In his arms the child was dead.
And now his spirits shall also live according to my will. I note his words and works and the custom, And with strength of spirit I also do miracles.
Walle! walle some stretch, That, for the purpose, water may flow, And with rich, full swallow, To the bath be poured out.
And now come, you old broom! Take the bad rags. Have been a servant for a long time: Now do my will. Stand on two legs, above be a head, hurry now and go with the pot of water.
Walle! walle some stretch, That, for the purpose, water may flow, And with rich, full swallow, To the bath be poured out.
Behold, he runs down to the shore, verily! is already at the river, And with lightning speed he is here again with swift pouring. Already for the second time! How the basin swells! How every bowl is filled with water!
Stand! stand! for we have measured Your gifts!? Ah, I perceive! Woe! woe! I have forgotten the word!
Oh, the Word whereupon in the end He becomes what He has been. Oh, he runs and brings nimble! If only you were the old broom! He brings in ever new pours quickly, Oh! and a hundred rivers fall upon me.
No, I can no longer let it go; I want to seize it. That is trickery! Ah! now I am becoming more and more tame! What a look! what looks!
O thou offspring of hell! Shall the whole house be drowned? I see streams of water running over every threshold! A wicked broom that will not hear! Stick, which thou hast been, stand still!
Will not let go at the end? Will hold you, Will hold you, And split the old wood nimbly with the sharp axe.
Behold, there he comes again sluggishly. As I throw myself at you, Like, O goblin, you lie down. Crashing hits the smooth sharpness. Verily, well hit! Behold, he is divided! And now I can hope, And I breathe freely!
Woe! woe! Both parts are in a hurry! Already as servants, they are ready to rise! Help me, alas! you high powers!
And they run! Wet and wet. Be in the hall and on the steps. What terrible waters! Lord and Master! hear me call!? Ah, here comes the Master! Lord, the distress is great! Those I called, I will not get rid of the spirits.
In the corner, broom, broom, have been, because as ghosts, only the old master calls you out for his sake.
When the sunset kisses the groves with the farewell flames, When in the glorious morning light the sun greets larks,
Oh then I throw songs of exultation into the praise of nature, echo speaks the tones again, everything only praises the Ewgen.
With the springs goes my greetings, And the deaf heart in me has had to awaken to the God Who protects us for and for.
Sea waves resound loudly, In the woods dwells many a sound; And we should not sing, Since joy everywhere?
Hanging with yellow pears And full of wild roses The land in the lake, you sweet swans, And drunk with kisses Dipped her head in the holy water.
Woe to me, where do I take the flowers when it is winter, and where the sunshine, and the shadow of the earth? The walls stand speechless and cold, the flags clank in the wind.
I hear a sickle rustle, well rustle through the corn, I hear a maiden lament that she has lost her love.
Let rustle, love, let rustle, I do not pay attention to how it goes, I would change my love into violets and clover.
You have recruited a maiden In violet and clover, So I stand here alone, Do my heart hurt.
I hear a little deer rustling through the forest, I hear my love lament, The love rustles so soon.
Let rustle, dear, let rustle, I do not know how I will feel, The streams always rustle, And none goes astray.
Insulation wants to spread its wings, the trees stir eerily, clouds move like heavy dreams - what does this grey mean?
Do you love a roe deer more than others, do not let it graze alone, hunters wander in the forest and blow, voices wander back and forth.
If you have a friend in this world, do not trust him at this hour. Friendly with your eyes and mouth, he contemplates war in treacherous peace.
What goes down tired today, is reborn tomorrow. Some things remain lost in the night - beware, stay awake and lively!
Silence of the people loud lust: Rushes the earth as in dreams Wonderful with all the trees, What the heart barely aware, Ancient times, lime mourning, And there wander quietly showers weather-shining through the chest.
When I, deeply satisfied by your vision, silently delight in your holy value, then I hear the gentle breaths of the angel who is veiled in you.
And an astonished, an inquiring smile wells up on my mouth, whether no dream deceives me, That now in you, eternally enough, My boldest wish, my only one, is fulfilled?
From depth then to depths rushes my mind, The sources of skill melodically rushing.
Stunned, I look up, I kneel to listen to their song of light.
I hear the brooks rushing here and there in the forest, In the forest in the rushing I do not know where I am.
The nightingales strike here in solitude, as if they wanted to say something about the old, beautiful time.
The glimmers of the moon fly, As if I saw the castle lying beneath me in the valley, And yet it is so far from here!
As if in the garden, full of roses white and red, My beloved had to wait for me, And yet is long dead.
Remove the crosses from the earth, and let them all become swords; God in heaven will forgive them: forgive, forgive, forgive, forgive; lay iron upon the anvil, and iron shall be the saviour.
Your firs, your oaks - Have you noticed the green question marks of German freedom? No, it shall not perish! But you merrily resurrect costs a trip to hell.
Germans, believe your seers, Our days will be brass, Our future will rattle in brass; Black death is our wages only, Our gold an evening gold only, Our red a bleeding heart!
Remove the crosses from the earth, and let them all become swords; God in heaven will pardon them: when he hears the roar of our fire, and the sound of his holy iron, he will bless them.
Before freedom be no peace, be no wife to man, and no golden grain to the field; Before freedom, before victory, see no infant from the cradle of joyful gaze into the world!
In the cities be only mourning, Until freedom from the walls waves the flags into the land; Until you, Rhine, thunder through free arches, let the last waves cursing crunch into the sand.
Remove the crosses out of the earth, and let them all become swords; God in heaven will forgive them: the oppressors and the Philistines, and the sword has its priests, and we will be priests.
Arise, awake, over the mountain and the river to meet the dawn, the last kiss to the faithful wife, And then to the faithful rapier! Until our hand is reduced to ashes, shall she not let go of the sword; We have loved long enough, And will at last hate!
Love cannot help us, Love cannot save us; Hold on, O hatred, your recent judgment, Break, O hatred, the chains! And where there are still tyrants, Which let us grasp boldly; We have loved long enough, And will hate at last!
If you still have a heart, let it stir in your hatred; there is dry wood everywhere to stir up our embers; those of you who remain free, sing through the streets of Germany: "You have loved long enough, O learn to hate at last!"
Fight them without ceasing, The tyranny of the earth, And our hatred will become more holy, As our love. Until our hand is reduced to ashes, Shall it not forsake the sword; We have loved long enough, And will hate at last!
Sing softly, softly, softly, sings a whispering lullaby; from the moon learns the wise man who moves so silently in the sky.
Sing a song as sweetly as the springs on the pebbles, as the bees buzz around the lime tree, murmur, whisper, trickle.
Do you not hear the springs go far between stone and flowers After the silent forest lakes, Where the marble paintings stand In the beautiful solitude? From the mountains gently descend, Awakening the ancient songs, Rises the wonderful night, And the grounds shine again, As dus often thought in a dream.
Do you know the flower that sprouted in the moonlit ground? Out of the bud, half-opened, young limbs blossoming, White arms, red mouth, And the nightingales beat, And all around it begins to lament, Oh deathly wounded with love, Of sunken beautiful days? Come, oh come to the silent ground!
